Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................   23
  

 Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk...   30
 

  Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   31


  Item 8 of Part II for additional
information regarding our segments.

     Information contained on the Company's Web sites is not part of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

     Amazon.com was incorporated in 1994 in the state of Washington and
reincorporated in 1996 in Delaware. The Company's principal corporate offices
are located in Seattle, Washington. Amazon.com completed its initial public
offering in May 1997, and its common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National
Market under the symbol "AMZN."

     As used herein, "Amazon.com" includes Amazon.com, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

     Amazon.com seeks to be the world's most customer-centric company where
customers can find and discover anything they may want to buy online. We intend
to leverage our Internet platform to expand the range of products and services
offered to our customers. This platform consists of strong brand recognition, a
large and growing customer base, innovative technology, extensive and
sophisticated distribution capabilities and significant e-commerce expertise. We
believe that this platform allows us to launch new e-commerce businesses
quickly, with a high quality of customer experience, economical incremental cost
and good prospects for success. We also believe that this platform allows us to
expand the range of products and services

                                        1 4

offered to our customers through relationships with strategic partners on terms
that are attractive to our customers, our strategic partners and us.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

  General

     Since our inception in July 1995, we have rapidly expanded our product and
service offerings and intend to continue to do so. Some of our product and
service offerings and their related launch dates are set forth below: US PRODUCTS AND                         INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTS
  MARKETPLACE SERVICES     LAUNCH DATE     AND MARKETPLACE SERVICES     LAUNCH DATE
  --------------------     -----------     ------------------------     ----------- Books                     July 1995        UK and German Books         October 1998
Music                     June 1998        UK and German Music         October 1999
DVD/Video                 November 1998    UK and German Auctions      November 1999
Auctions                  March 1999       UK and German zShops        November 1999
Electronics               July 1999        UK and German DVD/Video     March 2000
Toys                      July 1999
zShops                    October 1999
Home Improvement          November 1999
Software                  November 1999
Video Games               November 1999
sothebys.amazon.com       November 1999 In the past, we have offered our products and services primarily through
our online retail stores. In March 1999, we introduced Amazon.com Auctions, the
first of our marketplace services, which now also include sothebys.amazon.com
and zShops. We have recently entered into agreements to expand the products and
services we offer by allowing selected strategic partners to sell products and
services under co-branded sections on the Amazon.com Web site. We refer to these
new arrangements as the Amazon.com Commerce Network. Some of the products and
services sold through the Amazon.com Commerce Network are described below under
"Strategic Relationships."

     Our US online retail stores currently consist of books, music, DVD/video,
toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement. With the
exception of books, which we launched in 1995, and music and DVD/video, which we
launched in 1998, we launched all of our online stores in 1999. We anticipate
new online store additions in 2000 and beyond.

     US Books, Music and DVD/Video Segment. We are the Internet's number one
books, number one music and number one DVD/video retailer based upon our 1999
revenues. We currently offer an aggregate of over 13 million titles in books,
music and DVD/video (as used herein, "titles" offered means the number of items
offered in our catalogs). The US Books, Music and DVD/video segment had sales of
$1.31 billion, $588.0 million and $147.8 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

     During 1999, we continued to enhance our Book Store by expanding selection
and improving the customer experience. We created new specialty stores such as
our professional and technical store, expanded our editorial content through
partnerships with experts in certain fields and increased selection with the
addition of millions of used and out-of-print titles.

     During 1999, our Music Store launched an improved classical musical store,
enhanced its product recommendation services and added new features to promote
independent artists via Amazon.com Advantage. Amazon.com became the first major
online music retailer to dedicate an area of its store to free, full-length song
downloads from established artists and major-label performers.

     Our DVD/video Store enjoyed strong revenue growth in 1999. In addition, our
DVD/video Store continued its integration with our Internet Movie Database
(IMDb) Web site, a leading online information

                                        2 5

source for movie enthusiasts, created and hosted the official Web site for
"American Beauty," winner of three Golden Globe(TM) awards, and began streaming
exclusive outtake footage from motion pictures such as "The Blair Witch Project"
and "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me."

  Early-Stage Businesses and Other Segment

     Other US Retail. Amazon.com's other US online retail stores consist of
electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement.

     US Marketplace Services. Amazon.com's US marketplace services currently
consist of Amazon.com Auctions, zShops and sothebys.amazon.com. Amazon.com
Auctions allows buyers and sellers to conduct transactions with respect to a
wide variety of products in an easy to use auction format. Amazon.com zShops
allows individuals and businesses to offer popular as well as hard-to-find items
to Amazon.com's customers. sothebys.amazon.com is an online auction site devoted
to art, antiques and collectibles.

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, these marketplace services surpassed a
combined 1 million registered users and 1.5 million listings. Since its launch
in November 1999, sothebys.amazon.com has achieved average close rates, which
are rates of actual purchases by customers bidding at the site, in excess of 50%
and average auction closing prices of over $500.

     The participants in our marketplace services can use our Amazon.com
Payments service, which allows individuals and small businesses to accept credit
card payments through Amazon.com's 1-Click payment feature, thus eliminating the
problems associated with checks and money orders.

     Amazon.com Commerce Network. We have recently entered into agreements to
allow selected strategic partners to promote their products and services to our
customers. These strategic partners are part of the Amazon.com Commerce Network
and currently consist of Greenlight.com, an online source for auto purchasing in
partnership with local dealerships; living.com, an online retailer of home
products and services; drugstore.com, an online retail and information source
for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy; Audible, which
delivers spoken audio over the Internet; Ashford.com, an online retailer of
luxury and premium products; and NextCard, Inc., an online issuer of consumer
credit cards. We believe that these arrangements will be attractive to
Amazon.com customers as a result of the increase in product and service
selection available on our site, to our strategic partners as a result of the
potential growth of their customer base and brand awareness, and to us as a
result of our ability to offer customers an expanded set of products and
services and the financial benefits we receive.

     Revenue for the Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment in 1999 was $163.8
million. Amazon.com had no revenue from this segment in previous years.

     International Segment. We have two internationally focused Web sites
located at www.amazon.co.uk and www.amazon.de. Each of amazon.co.uk and
amazon.de was ranked the number one most visited e-commerce site and the number
10 most visited site overall in the UK and Germany, respectively, according to
the Media Metrix ratings for Europe released in January 2000. Both of these
sites were launched in October 1998 and currently have product and service
offerings principally consisting of books, music, DVD/video, auctions and
zShops. These international sites have the same look, feel and functionality as
the US Web site, including 1-Click technology, personalized recommendations and
product reviews, but offer content, products and services tailored to the local
market. The amazon.de Web site is presented in the German language. We currently
have distribution centers and customer service centers in the UK and Germany. We
intend to expand the product and service offerings of these Web sites in the
future. Revenue for the International segment was $167.7 million and $21.8
million in 1999 and 1998, respectively. Amazon.com had no revenue for this
segment in 1997.

AMAZON.COM WEB SITES

     The key features of Amazon.com's Web sites include browsing, searching,
useful product information, reviews, recommendations and personalization, broad
selection, low prices, 1-Click technology, secure payment systems and
availability and fulfillment. Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat
purchases

                                        3 6

by providing an inviting and satisfying experience that encourages customers to
return frequently and to interact with other customers.

     Browsing. The Amazon.com sites offer visitors a variety of highlighted
subject areas, styles and special features arranged in a simple, easy-to-use
fashion intended to enhance product search and selection. In addition, the Web
sites present a variety of products and services and topical information. To
enhance the customers' shopping experience and increase sales, we feature a
variety of products and services on a rotating basis throughout the stores.

     Searching. A primary feature of Amazon.com Web sites is their interactive,
searchable catalogs of millions of books, music products, DVD/videos, toys,
electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. We provide a
variety of search tools to find desired products based on numerous search
criteria. We license some of our catalog and other information from third
parties.

     Reviews and Content. The Amazon.com online stores offer numerous forms of
content to enhance the customer's shopping experience and encourage purchases.
Various types of content are available for particular titles, including cover
art, synopses, annotations, reviews by editorial staff and other customers, and
interviews by authors and artists.

     Recommendations and Personalization. Personalization features include
greeting customers by name, instant and personalized recommendations, personal
notification services, and a number of other related features. Amazon.com's Wish
List feature allows users to create an online wish list of desired products and
services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes. We believe that
personalization of a customer's shopping experience at our Web sites is an
important element of the value proposition we offer to customers, and we intend
to continue to enhance our personalized services.

     Other Web Site Services. The Amazon.com Web sites provide other services to
make online shopping more enjoyable for our customers. In our Gift Ideas
section, we feature a seasonally appropriate selection of gift ideas and
services. In our Community section, we provide a gathering place where customers
can share product information and recommendations. Through our e-Cards section,
customers can send free animated electronic greeting cards to friends and
family.

     1-Click Technology. Amazon.com provides customers with a streamlined
ordering process using 1-Click technology. If a customer has previously
activated 1-Click functionality, that customer can place an order by clicking
one button without having to fill out an order form. The customer's shipping and
billing information is automatically referenced on our secure server.

     Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon.com seeks to keep its customers'
information secure. Amazon.com secure server software encrypts customers'
personal information, including credit card number, name and address, to protect
against interception as the information travels over the Internet.

     Availability and Fulfillment. Many of our products are available for
shipment within 24 hours, although some products take longer and some may not be
available at all. Customers can select from a variety of delivery options,
including overnight and various international shipping options, as well as
gift-wrapping services. We use e-mail to notify customers of order status under
various conditions and provide links to shipping carriers so that customers can
track their shipments. We seek to provide rapid and reliable fulfillment of
customer orders and to continue to improve our speed of availability and
fulfillment.

     Remote Access. In October 1999, we launched Amazon.com Anywhere which
allows Amazon.com customers to access the Amazon.com site from hand-held
wireless devices, such as cellular phones and the Palm VII Connected Organizer,
and to utilize features such as 1-Click purchasing and product-searching
capabilities on their wireless devices.

     Return Policy. For the 30 days following receipt of a customer order,
Amazon.com provides a full refund for any book in its original condition, any
Amazon.com recommended book in any condition, any unopened music CD, DVD/video
tape or software, and any other merchandise item in new condition, with its
original packaging and accessories.

                                        4 7

STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS

     We have entered into a number of strategic relationships with selected
e-commerce companies. These relationships have generally consisted of our
making, or having the future right to make, a minority investment in the
companies and the entry into commercial agreements which vary in scope from
customer advertising activities and links to recently announced deals involving
the sale of products and services on co-branded sections of the Amazon.com Web
site. In no case do we exercise control over the investee. Certain of our
strategic relationships are listed below: COMPANY                                   NATURE OF BUSINESS
            -------                                   ------------------ Ashford.com....................  Online retailer of luxury and premium products
Audible........................  Internet-delivered spoken audio for PC-based listening or
                                 playback devices
Della.com......................  Online service for gift registry, gift advice and
                                 personalized gift suggestions
drugstore.com..................  Online retail and information source for health, beauty,
                                 wellness, personal care and pharmacy
Gear.com.......................  Online source for brand-name sporting goods at discount
                                 prices
Greenlight.com.................  Online auto purchasing in partnership with local dealerships
HomeGrocer.com.................  Online grocery-shopping and home-delivery service
Kozmo.com......................  Online one-hour delivery service for entertainment and
                                 convenience products
living.com.....................  Online retailer of home products and services
NextCard, Inc..................  Online issuer of consumer credit cards
Pets.com.......................  Online source for pet products, information and services
Sothebys.......................  Auction house in cooperation with which we maintain an
                                 online auction site devoted to art, antiques and
                                 collectibles We believe that these investments and commercial arrangements are
attractive to us for a variety of reasons. First, our customers receive access
to a wider range of products and services. Second, we are able to generate
revenue from the strategic partners because we help them sell to the Amazon.com
customer base. Third, we have the opportunity to participate in the future
success of our strategic partners as a result of our ownership interest in such
companies. We believe that our strategic partners are also well served as a
result of the opportunity to grow their customer base quickly and build brand
recognition.

MARKETING AND PROMOTION

     Amazon.com's marketing strategy is designed to strengthen the Amazon.com
brand name, increase customer traffic to the Amazon.com Web sites, build
customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and
service revenue opportunities.

     Amazon.com creatively applies technology to deliver personalized programs
and services, as well as flexible merchandising. We employ a variety of media,
business development and promotional methods to achieve these goals. We also
benefit from public relations activities as well as online and traditional
advertising, including radio, television and print media.

     We extend our market presence through our Associates Program, which enables
associated Web sites to make products available to their audiences with order
fulfillment by Amazon.com. As of February 29, 2000, approximately 430,000 Web
sites have enrolled in the Associates Program.

CUSTOMER SERVICE

     We believe that our ability to establish and maintain long-term
relationships with our customers and to encourage repeat visits and purchases
depends, in part, on the strength of our customer service operations. We seek to
achieve frequent communication with and feedback from our customers to
continually improve the Amazon.com experience. Users can contact customer
service representatives via telephone and e-mail

                                        5 8

24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We have automated certain tools used by our
customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. As of December
31, 1999, we had customer service personnel working in five customer service
centers located in Seattle and Tacoma, Washington; Slough, England; Regensburg,
Germany; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. We plan to open additional customer
service centers in Huntington, West Virginia and The Hague, Netherlands in 2000.

WAREHOUSING, INVENTORY, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION

     We significantly expanded our US distribution infrastructure in 1999 with
the addition of new distribution facilities in Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville,
Kansas; Campbellsville, Kentucky; Lexington, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; and
Grand Forks, North Dakota. We also opened two new international distribution
centers, one in the UK and one in Germany. On an aggregate basis, these eight
new distribution centers comprised approximately four million square feet of
warehouse space. The geographic coverage of these distribution centers and their
capacity have dramatically improved our fulfillment capabilities and will allow
us to continue to increase our volume. The new distribution centers also give us
more control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability to deliver
merchandise to customers on a reliable and timely basis. We now have a total of
10 distribution centers, including our facilities in Seattle, Washington, and
New Castle, Delaware.

     We purchase products from a network of manufacturers, distributors,
publishers and labels. For orders of books, music, DVD/video, software, video
games and certain home improvement products that cannot be filled from our
inventory, our proprietary software selects the orders that can be filled via
electronic interfaces with vendors and, in some cases, forwards the remaining
orders to our special orders group. This special orders group has developed
customized information systems and consists of trained ordering personnel who
specialize in hard-to-find products. Under our arrangements with certain
distributors, electronically ordered products often are shipped to us by the
distributor within hours of a receipt of an order from us. With the addition of
new distribution centers and product lines, we are required to carry increased
levels of inventory in order to be able to meet customer demand and ship
products to customers on a timely basis.

SEASONALITY

     Both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail
seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally declines
during the summer. Sales in the traditional retail book, music, DVD/video, toy,
electronics, software, video games and home improvement industries usually
increase significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. The fourth
quarter seasonal impact may be even more pronounced in our toys and electronics
businesses.

TECHNOLOGY

     We have implemented numerous Web site management, search, customer
interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and
systems using a combination of our own proprietary technologies and commercially
available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy is to focus our
development efforts on creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary
software that is unique to our business and to license or acquire commercially
developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate.

     We use a set of applications for accepting and validating customer orders,
placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory to
customer orders and ensuring proper shipment of products to customers based on
various ordering criteria. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions of
items, a number of different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and
multiple shipment methods and allow the customer to choose whether to receive
single or several shipments based on availability. These applications also
manage the process of accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards.
Amazon.com Web sites also incorporate a variety of search and database tools.

     Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate our Web
sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued
uninterrupted operation of our Web sites and transaction-processing systems is
essential to our business, and our Web site operations staff works to make the
sites as

                                        6 9

reliable as possible. We use the services of three Internet service providers to
obtain connectivity to the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over
multiple dedicated lines.

COMPETITION

     The online commerce market is new, rapidly evolving and intensely
competitive. In addition, the retail book, music, DVD/video, toy, electronics,
software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive.
Our current or potential competitors include (1) online vendors of books, music,
DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement
products and other products, (2) a number of indirect competitors, including Web
portals and Web search engines, that are involved in online commerce, either
directly or in collaboration with other retailers, (3) online auction services,
(4) Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities and (5)
publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers of our
products, many of which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and
customer bases, and some of which currently sell, or may sell, products or
services through the Internet, mail order or direct marketing. We believe that
the principal competitive factors in our market include brand recognition,
selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer
service, quality of search tools, quality of editorial and other Web site
content, reliability, speed of fulfillment, ease of use and our ability to adapt
to changing conditions. As the online commerce market continues to grow, other
companies may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen
their competitive positions. We may not be able to compete successfully against
these and future competitors.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents,
trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual
property as critical to its success, and relies on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others to protect its
proprietary rights. The Company has been issued a number of trademarks, service
marks, patents and copyrights by US and foreign governmental authorities. The
Company also has applied for the registration of other trademarks, service
marks, copyrights and patents in the US and internationally. In addition, the
Company has filed US and international patent applications covering certain of
its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent
and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which the
Company's products and services are made available online. The Company has
licensed in the past, and expects that it may license in the future, certain of
its proprietary rights, such as trademarks, patents, technology or copyrighted
material, to third parties.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 7,600 full-time
and part-time employees. The Company also employs independent contractors and
temporary personnel. None of the Company's employees is represented by a labor
union, and the Company considers its employee relations to be good. Competition
for qualified personnel in the Company's industry is intense, particularly for
software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its
future success will depend in part on its continued ability to attract, hire and
retain qualified personnel.

ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

     The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual
Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described
below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our
business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially
adversely affected.

                                        7 10

  WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH YOU CAN EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS
  AND PROSPECTS

     We incorporated in July 1994 and began offering products for sale on our
Web site in July 1995. Accordingly, we have a relatively short operating history
upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our
prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently
encountered by online commerce companies. As an online commerce company, we have
a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model, we face intense
competition, we must effectively manage our growth, and we must respond quickly
to rapid changes in customer demands and industry standards. We may not succeed
in addressing these challenges and risks.

  WE HAVE AN ACCUMULATED DEFICIT AND ANTICIPATE FURTHER LOSSES

     We have incurred significant losses since we began doing business. As of
December 31, 1999, we had an accumulated deficit of $882 million. We are
incurring substantial operating losses and may continue to incur such losses for
the foreseeable future. These losses may be significantly higher than our
current losses. To succeed, we must invest heavily in marketing and promotion
and in developing our product offerings and technology and operating
infrastructure. In addition, the expenses associated with our recent and future
acquisitions and investments and interest expense related to our outstanding
notes will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing
programs have resulted in relatively low product gross margins, so we need to
generate and sustain substantially higher revenues in order to become
profitable. Our historical growth rates are not sustainable and our percentage
growth rate will decrease in the future.

  OUR SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS

     We have significant indebtedness. As of December 31, 1999, we had
indebtedness under senior discount notes, convertible subordinated notes,
capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing totaling approximately
$1.48 billion. With the sale of our Premium Adjustable Convertible
Securities(TM), also known as PEACS, in February 2000, we incurred additional
debt of approximately $681 million. We may incur substantial additional debt in
the future. Our indebtedness could:

     - make it difficult to make principal and interest payments on our debt,

     - make it difficult to obtain necessary additional financing for working
       capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other
       purposes in the future,

     - limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
       business and competition, and

     - make it more difficult for us to react in the event of an economic
       downturn.

     We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. If our cash flow
is inadequate to meet our obligations, we may face substantial liquidity
problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for
required payments, or if we fail to comply with other covenants in our
indebtedness, we will be in default. This would permit our creditors to
accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness. In addition, the PEACS are
denominated in euros, not dollars, and the exchange ratio between the euro and
the dollar is not fixed by the indenture governing the PEACS. Therefore,
fluctuations in the euro/dollar exchange ratio may adversely affect us,
including by potentially triggering certain reset provisions in the PEACS that
would lower the conversion price.

  WE CANNOT ACCURATELY FORECAST REVENUES OF OUR BUSINESS. WE MAY EXPERIENCE
  SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. OUR BUSINESS IS
  SUBJECT TO SEASONAL FLUCTUATION. FUTURE FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS OR
  REVENUE SHORTFALLS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SUCCESS

     Due to our limited operating history and the unpredictability of our
industry, we cannot accurately forecast our revenues. We base our current and
future expense levels on our investment plans and estimates of future revenues.
Our expenses are to a large extent fixed. We may not be able to adjust our
spending quickly if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Further, we may
make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition, investment or
financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results.

                                        8 11

     Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including:

     - our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and
       satisfy our customers' demands,

     - our ability to acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill
       orders,

     - changes in gross margins of our current and future products, services and
       markets,

     - our ability to introduce, and the timing of introductions by us and our
       competitors of, popular books, music selections, DVDs, videos, toys,
       electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products
       and other products or services, and our ability to properly anticipate
       demand,

     - purchases of large quantities of toys, electronics products, software,
       video games, home improvement products and other products, particularly
       in advance of the holidays, for which demand may not materialize,

     - introduction of our new Web sites, services and products or those of
       competitors,

     - termination of Web sites, service offerings and/or product sales that we
       determine are not viable,

     - changes in usage of the Internet and online services and consumer
       acceptance of the Internet and online commerce,

     - timing of upgrades and developments in our systems and infrastructure,

     - the level of traffic on our Web sites,

     - the effects of acquisitions and other business combinations, and our
       ability to successfully integrate those acquisitions and business
       combinations,

     - technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet brownouts,

     - the mix of books, music products, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics
       products, software, video games, home improvement products and other
       products we sell,

     - the mix of revenues derived from products as compared to services,

     - our inability to prevent fraud perpetrated by third parties through
       credit card transactions, Amazon.com Payments transactions, and auction
       and zShops transactions,

     - our level of merchandise and vendor returns, and

     - disruptions in service by common shipping carriers due to strikes or
       otherwise.

     Both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail
seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally declines
during the summer. Sales in the traditional retail book, music, DVD/video, toy,
electronics and home improvement industries usually increase significantly in
the fourth calendar quarter of each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may
be even more pronounced in our toys, electronics and video games businesses.

     For these reasons, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of
our financial results to forecast our future performance. Our future operating
results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors,
which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.

 WE COULD LOSE SUBSTANTIAL MARKET SHARE IF WE DO NOT KEEP UP WITH THE INTENSE
 COMPETITION IN THE ONLINE COMMERCE MARKET

     The online commerce market is new, rapidly evolving and intensely
competitive. In addition, the retail book, music, DVD/video, toy, electronics,
software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive.
Our current or potential competitors include:

     - online vendors of books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics,
       software, video games, home improvement products, and other products,

     - a number of indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search
       engines, that are involved in online commerce, either directly or in
       collaboration with other retailers,

     - online auction services,

     - Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities, and

                                        9 12

     - publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers of
       our products, many of which possess significant brand awareness, sales
       volume and customer bases, and some of which currently sell, or may sell,
       products or services through the Internet, mail order or direct
       marketing.

     We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include
brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price,
accessibility, customer service, quality of search tools, quality of editorial
and other Web site content, reliability, speed of fulfillment, ease of use and
our ability to adapt to changing conditions.

     Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly
greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may be able
to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to
adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory policies. They also can devote more
resources to technology development and marketing than we can.

     As the online commerce market continues to grow, other companies may enter
into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive
positions. Competition in the Internet and online commerce markets will
intensify. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer
bases, participants in those segments may use their market power to expand into
the markets in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies
may increase the competitive pressures on online retailers. The nature of the
Internet as an electronic marketplace may facilitate competitive entry and
comparison shopping and render it inherently more competitive than conventional
retailing formats. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers
to quickly compare our prices with those of our competitors. This increased
competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share or
impair the value of our brand.

 WE MAY EXPERIENCE SYSTEM INTERRUPTIONS, WHICH AFFECT THE VOLUME OF ORDERS WE
 FULFILL AND THEREFORE OUR REVENUES, AND MAY AFFECT OUR BRAND NAME, AND OUR
 SYSTEMS ARE NOT FULLY INTEGRATED AND ARE NOT REDUNDANT

     Customer access to our Web sites directly affects the volume of orders we
fulfill and thus affects our revenues. We experience occasional system
interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently
fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the
attractiveness of our products and services. These interruptions will continue.
We need to add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and
network infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on our Web sites
and increased sales volume and to fully integrate our systems. Without these
upgrades, we may face additional system interruptions, slower response times,
diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment and
delays in our financial reporting. We cannot accurately project the rate or
timing of any increases in traffic or sales volume on our Web sites and,
therefore, the integration and timing of these upgrades are uncertain. In
addition, our inventory management systems are not fully integrated with our
financial reporting systems, and a significant amount of manual effort may be
necessary to reconcile our inventory and other financial accounts.

     We maintain substantially all of our computer and communications hardware
at a single leased facility in Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations
could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications
failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. We do not have backup systems
or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have sufficient business
interruption insurance to compensate us for losses from a major interruption.
Computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could
cause system interruptions, delays and loss of critical data and could
significantly diminish our reputation and brand name and prevent us from
providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders.

 OUR PLANNED GROWTH WILL CONTINUE TO PLACE A SIGNIFICANT STRAIN ON OUR
 MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES

     We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further
expand our operations to address potential growth of our product and service
offerings and customer base. This expansion will continue

                                       10 13

to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial
resources. We need to successfully execute our expansion of our distribution
centers and customer service centers and continue to improve our
transaction-processing and operational and financial systems, procedures and
controls. We also need to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our
current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be
adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations. We may not be
able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel or to
successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit
our growth.

 WE FACE SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY RISK ARISING OUT OF CHANGES IN CONSUMER DEMAND
 AND PRODUCT CYCLES. WE FACE ADDITIONAL INVENTORY RISKS BECAUSE OUR INVENTORY
 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ARE NOT WELL INTEGRATED AND BECAUSE CERTAIN OF OUR
 OPERATIONAL PROCESSES ARE MANUAL

     We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality,
new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer
tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must
accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking
products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the
time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin
selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand
accurately. These issues are particularly pronounced with respect to our
inventory of products that are based on current trends, like toys. A failure to
optimize inventory will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make
partial shipments from one or more locations.

     We may also be exposed to inventory risk if we are unable to negotiate
satisfactory terms and conditions with our manufacturers, distributors and other
suppliers. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from
certain sources, may require a significant lead-time and pre-payment, and such
inventory may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant
inventory levels of products, and we may be unable to sell products in
sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons.

     We are also exposed to significant inventory risks because our inventory
forecasting, purchasing, receiving, reconciliation, accounting and payment
systems are not well developed and are not well integrated. The lack of systems
integration makes it a difficult and manual process to receive inventory,
reconcile inventory invoices to purchase orders, account for inventory
efficiently, request refunds from suppliers and pay supplier invoices. In
addition, certain manual operational processes further complicate our ability to
manage inventory efficiently.

     Any one of the factors set forth above may require us to mark-down or
write-off inventory. Substantial inventory mark-downs or write-offs will
decrease gross margins. In the fourth quarter of 1999, we incurred
inventory-related charges which significantly decreased our gross margins.

 ENTERING NEW BUSINESS AREAS WILL REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE AND COULD STRAIN
 MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESOURCES

     We intend to expand our operations by promoting new or complementary
products, services or sales formats and by expanding our product or service
offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our
management, financial and operational resources. We cannot expect to benefit in
these new markets from the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the
online book market. Our gross margins in these new business areas may be lower
than our existing business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no
experience in these new business areas. We may not be able to expand our
operations in a cost-effective or timely manner. Any new business that our
customers do not receive favorably could damage our reputation and brand name.

  IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXPAND AND OPERATE OUR DISTRIBUTION CENTERS, OUR
BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED

     If we do not successfully expand our distribution operations to accommodate
peak volumes, or if our distribution centers fail to operate properly, it could
significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. During the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1999, we added distribution centers in Nevada, Georgia,
Kentucky, Kansas, North Dakota, Germany and the UK. Most of these distribution
centers are or will be

                                       11 14

highly automated, and we have had limited experience with automated distribution
centers. The two distribution centers we operated prior to 1999, in Washington
and Delaware, are manually operated. We are not experienced in coordinating and
managing distribution operations in geographically distant locations. Because it
is difficult to predict sales increases and lead times for developing
distribution centers are long, we may over-expand our facilities, which may
result in excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity.
We also need to retain flexibility within our distribution and logistics
network, including the ability to manage the operational challenges of shipping
non-uniform and heavy products as part of the fulfillment of toy, electronics,
home improvement and other product orders.

 THE DISPROPORTIONATE AMOUNT OF OUR NET SALES THAT WE EXPECT TO REALIZE DURING
 THE FOURTH QUARTER OF OUR FISCAL YEAR PLACES SIGNIFICANT STRAIN ON OUR BUSINESS

     Because we expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to be realized
during the holiday season in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, we face
significant risks in the fourth quarter. We may fail to accurately predict the
optimal inventory levels at our distribution centers for the fourth quarter. If
we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts during the fourth quarter
and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly impact our revenue and
our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be required to take
significant inventory mark-downs or write-offs, which could reduce gross
margins. In the fourth quarter of 1999, we incurred inventory-related charges,
which significantly decreased our gross margins. A failure to optimize inventory
at our distribution centers will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to
make partial shipments from one or more locations. In addition, we may
experience a decline in our shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades and
split-shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If
too many customers access our Web sites within a short period of time due to
increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our
Web sites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which
may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products
and services, and may also harm our brand. In addition, we may be unable to
adequately staff our distribution and customer service centers during these peak
periods. Finally, our new automated distribution centers may fail to operate
properly, which will interfere with our ability to meet customer demand.

  WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN OUR EFFORTS TO EXPAND INTO INTERNATIONAL MARKETS

     We plan to expand our presence in international markets. We have relatively
little experience in purchasing, marketing and distributing products or services
for these markets and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It
will be costly to establish international facilities and operations, promote our
brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other
systems. We may not succeed in our efforts in these countries. Our revenues from
international activities may not offset the expense of establishing and
maintaining foreign operations and therefore may never be profitable.

     Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks
inherent in selling and operating abroad, including, but not limited to, risks
with respect to:

     - currency exchange rate fluctuations,

     - local economic and political conditions,

     - disruptions of capital and trading markets,

     - restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of
       funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas
       and custom duties and tariffs),

     - changes in legal or regulatory requirements,

     - import or export licensing requirements,

     - limitations on the repatriation of funds,

     - difficulty in obtaining distribution and support,

     - nationalization,

                                       12 15

     - laws and policies of the US affecting trade, foreign investment and
       loans, and

     - tax and other laws.

     As the international online commerce market continues to grow, competition
in this market will likely intensify. We may have to compete with local
companies who understand the local markets better than we do and who have better
local brand name recognition than we do. In addition, governments in foreign
jurisdictions may regulate the Internet or other online services in such areas
as content, privacy, network security, encryption or distribution. This may
affect our ability to conduct business internationally. We may not be able to
hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our
growth in international markets.

 OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN MAKING AND INTEGRATING
 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

     We plan to continue to expand our operations and market presence by
entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other
strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such
as:

     - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of
       combined companies,

     - disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on
       existing businesses and other market developments,

     - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel,

     - expenses associated with amortization of goodwill and other purchased
       intangible assets,

     - additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses,

     - impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and
       business partners, and

     - losses that may arise from our equity investments.

     We may not succeed in addressing these risks.

     As part of our business strategy, we intend to increase the number of our
strategic investments and alliances with online commerce businesses and other
companies pursuant to which they pay us licensing or other fees, such as fees to
establish co-branded stores on our Web sites or to participate in our auction or
zShops services. While we believe these arrangements will have a positive impact
on our results of operations, particularly our gross margins, this strategy may
not be successful and these transactions create additional risk. For example,
for strategic alliances where we create a co-branded store on our Web site, we
may experience difficulty integrating the other company's systems to create a
seamless customer experience, the other company may be unable to pay amounts
owed to us in the future and we may suffer harm to our brand if the other
company fails to meet our standards for customer service, Web site performance
and privacy, which would decrease customer satisfaction with our Web sites. In
addition, because we often take a portion of our fees for establishing a
co-branded store in shares of capital stock of the other company, we may never
realize the full value of that portion of the fee.

     We may not be able to make business combinations and strategic investments
that are acceptable to us. If not, our gross margins may not improve and may
even deteriorate. In addition, the businesses we have acquired, and in the
future may acquire, may incur operating losses.

  WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADAPT QUICKLY ENOUGH TO CHANGING CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS
AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS

     Technology in the online commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be
able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences
and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services
with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards
and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology
obsolete. To succeed, we must enhance our Web site responsiveness, functionality
and features, acquire and license leading

                                       13 16

technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology
and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and
practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

  THE LOSS OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

     We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior
management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our chief
executive officer and chairman of the board. We do not have "key person" life
insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key
employees could harm our business.

 WE RELY ON A SMALL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS; OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED IF OUR
 CURRENT SUPPLIERS STOP SELLING MERCHANDISE TO US ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS

     Although we increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during 1999,
approximately 30% of all of our purchases during 1999 were from three major
vendors, Ingram Book Group, Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media, Inc., from
which we purchase book, music, DVD and video titles. We do not have long-term
contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability
of merchandise, particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. Our
current vendors may stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms. We may
not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and
efficient manner and on acceptable terms.

  WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACQUIRE OR MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE DOMAIN NAMES

     We hold rights to various Web domain names, including "Amazon.com,"
"Amazon.co.uk," "Amazon.de" and "zShops.com." Governmental agencies typically
regulate domain names. These regulations are subject to change. We may not be
able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which
we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect
our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third
parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or
diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.

  THE LONG-TERM VIABILITY OF THE INTERNET AS A MEDIUM FOR COMMERCE IS NOT
CERTAIN

     Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is a recent
phenomenon and is subject to a high level of uncertainty. While the number of
Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast
enough to meet the increased levels of demand. The increased use of the Internet
as a medium for commerce raises concerns regarding Internet security,
reliability, pricing, accessibility and quality of service. If use of the
Internet does not continue to grow, or grows at a slower rate than we
anticipate, or if the necessary Internet infrastructure or complementary
services are not developed to effectively support growth that may occur, our
business would be harmed.

  WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS IF PEOPLE OR PROPERTY ARE HARMED
BY THE PRODUCTS WE SELL

     As we enter new lines of business, we may increasingly sell products, such
as toys and home improvement products, that may increase our exposure to product
liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by
such products, and that may require us to take actions such as product recalls.
We maintain liability insurance, but we cannot be certain that our coverage will
be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to
be available to us on economically reasonable terms, if at all. In addition,
some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from
product liability.

  GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF INTERNET COMMERCE IS EVOLVING AND UNFAVORABLE CHANGES
COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS

     We are subject to general business regulations and laws or regulations
regarding taxation and access to online commerce. These laws or regulations may
impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. Regulatory
authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet or
online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing,
content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, and characteristics and
quality of products and services. Changes in consumer protection laws also

                                       14 17

may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online, both in
the US and internationally. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues
such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy
apply to the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these
issues may harm our business.

     In addition, many states currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" in
conducting auctions and may regulate online auction services. States may also
regulate consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops. This
could, in turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase
our cost of doing business.

  WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO COLLECT TAXES ON THE PRODUCTS WE SELL

     In accordance with current industry practice, we do not currently collect
sales taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of goods into states other
than Washington. In addition, we collect Value Added Tax, or VAT, for products
that are ordered on www.amazon.co.uk and www.amazon.de and shipped into European
Union member countries. Our new distribution center and customer service center
networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with other aspects
of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax
obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or
other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies which engage
in electronic commerce as we do. A successful assertion by one or more states or
foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of
merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease
our ability to compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our
business.

     Recent federal legislation limits the imposition of US state and local
taxes on Internet-related sales. In 1998, Congress passed the Internet Tax
Freedom Act, which places a three-year moratorium on state and local taxes on
Internet access, unless such tax was already imposed prior to October 1, 1998,
and on discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. There is a possibility that
Congress may not renew this legislation in 2001. If Congress chooses not to
renew this legislation, US state and local governments would be free to impose
new taxes on electronically purchased goods. The imposition of taxes on goods
sold over the Internet by US state and local governments would create
administrative burdens for us and could reduce one competitive advantage that
the purchase of goods over the Internet now possesses.

     The European Commission is currently evaluating its VAT position on
electronic commerce transactions. It is possible that future VAT legislation in
the European Union or changes to our business model may result in additional VAT
collection obligations and administrative burdens.

  WE COULD BE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL OR FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES BY USERS OF OUR
AUCTION AND ZSHOPS SERVICES

     We may be unable to prevent users of our auction and zShops services from
selling unlawful goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face
civil or criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our
auction and zShops users. Any costs we incur as a result of liability relating
to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent
receipt of goods or the fraudulent collection of payments could harm our
business.

     In running our auction and zShops services, we rely on sellers of goods to
make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery and on buyers to pay
the agreed purchase price. For our auction and zShops services, we do not take
responsibility for delivery of payment or goods and while we can suspend or
terminate the accounts of users of auctions or zShops who fail to fulfill their
delivery obligations to other users, we cannot require users to make payments or
deliver goods. We do not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded
by other users except through our guarantee program. Under the guarantee
program, fraudulent activities by our auction and zShops users, such as the
fraudulent receipt of goods and the fraudulent collection of payments, may
create liability for us. In addition, we are aware that governmental agencies
are currently investigating the conduct of online auctions.

                                       15 18

 WE COULD BE LIABLE FOR BREACHES OF SECURITY ON OUR WEB SITE AND FRAUDULENT
 ACTIVITIES OF USERS OF OUR AMAZON.COM PAYMENTS PROGRAM

     A fundamental requirement for electronic commerce is the secure
transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we have
developed systems and processes to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions
and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may
impact our financial results.

     The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services
is currently unsettled. We guarantee payments made through Amazon.com Payments
up to certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and we may be unable to
prevent users of Amazon.com Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when
payment may not be made to a seller or fraudulently collecting payments when
goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our liability risk will increase as a
larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon.com Payments. Any costs we incur as a
result of liability because of our guarantee of payments made through Amazon.com
Payments or otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of
Amazon.com Payments depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services.
If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, Amazon.com
Payments will not be viable (and our businesses that use Amazon.com Payments may
not be viable).

  WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INFORMATION POSTED ON OUR WEB
SITE BY THIRD PARTIES

     Our Web site features customer reviews of the products we sell and customer
ratings of sellers on our auctions and zShops sites. Although these reviews and
ratings are generated by customers and not by us, it is possible that a claim
could be made against us for reviews and ratings posted on our Web site. If we
become liable for information posted on our Web site by customers, we could be
harmed and may be forced to discontinue certain services.

  WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OR
  MAY BE ACCUSED OF INFRINGING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES

     We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress,
trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law,
trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our
employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. We
have been issued a number of trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights
by US and foreign governmental authorities. We also have applied for the
registration of some other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents in
the US and internationally. In addition, we have filed US and international
patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. Effective
trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not
be available in every country in which our products and services are made
available online. The protection of our intellectual property may require the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.

     Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such as trademarks,
patented technology or copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the
value of our proprietary rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to
protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may
infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and
similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that we infringed their
proprietary rights. We have been subject to claims, and expect to continue to be
subject to legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement by our
licensors and us of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of
third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions
against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain
a license from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but
such license may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.

                                       16 19

  WE CANNOT BE SURE THAT THE YEAR 2000 PROBLEM WILL NOT AFFECT OUR BUSINESS

     Thus far, we have had no significant problems related to year 2000 issues
associated with the computer systems, software, other property and equipment we
use. However, we cannot guarantee that the year 2000 problem will not adversely
affect our business, operating results or financial condition at some point in
the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Year 2000 Implications."

  OUR STOCK PRICE IS HIGHLY VOLATILE

     The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. For
example, during the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 (as adjusted for the
3-for-1 split of our common stock on January 4, 1999 and the 2-for-1 split of
our common stock on September 1, 1999), the reported sale price of our common
stock on the NASDAQ National Market was as high as $113.00 and as low as $41.00
per share. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a
number of events and factors, such as:

     - quarterly variations in operating results,

     - announcements of innovations,

     - new products, services and strategic developments by us or our
       competitors, or business combinations and investments by us or our
       competitors,

     - changes in our operating expense levels or losses,

     - changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities
       analysts,

     - performance by other online commerce companies, and

     - news reports relating to trends in the Internet, book, music, DVD/video,
       toys, electronics, software, video game, home improvement products,
       auctions, consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, or other
       product or service industries.

     Any of these events may cause our stock price to fall, which may adversely
affect our business and financing opportunities. In addition, the stock market
in general and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular
have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to such
companies' operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations
may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock regardless of our
operating performance.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

     The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive
officers and Directors of the Company as of March 23, 2000:

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME                      AGE                     POSITION
                    ----                      ---                     -------- Jeffrey P. Bezos............................  36    Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
                                                    of the Board
Joseph Galli, Jr............................  41    President and Chief Operating Officer
Warren C. Jenson............................  42    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
                                                    Officer and Chief Accounting Officer
John D. Risher..............................  34    Senior Vice President and General Manager, US
                                                    Retail Group
Diego Piacentini............................  39    Senior Vice President and General Manager,
                                                    International
Richard L. Dalzell..........................  42    Vice President and Chief Information Officer
Mark J. Britto..............................  35    Vice President, Strategic Alliances
Jeffrey A. Wilke............................  33    Vice President and General Manager,
                                                    Operations
Mark S. Peek................................  42    Vice President, Finance 17 20

     JEFFREY P. BEZOS. Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com
since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos
served as President from founding until June 1999 and Treasurer and Secretary
from May 1996 to March 1997. From December 1990 to June 1994, Mr. Bezos was
employed by D.E. Shaw & Co., a Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice
President in 1992. From April 1988 to December 1990, Mr. Bezos was employed by
Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President in February 1990. Mr. Bezos is
also a director of drugstore.com, inc. Mr. Bezos received his B.S. in Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University.

     JOSEPH GALLI, JR. Mr. Galli joined Amazon.com in June 1999 as President and
Chief Operating Officer. From 1980 until June 1999, Mr. Galli held a variety of
positions with The Black and Decker Corporation, culminating as president of
Black and Decker's Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. As president, he
supervised the marketing, sales, manufacturing, engineering, finance, MIS,
purchasing and product service departments. Mr. Galli received a B.S. in
Business Administration from the University of North Carolina and an M.B.A. from
Loyola College.

     WARREN C. JENSON. Mr. Jenson joined Amazon.com in September 1999 as Senior
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Before
joining Amazon.com, Mr. Jenson was the Chief Financial Officer and Executive
Vice President for Delta Air Lines from April 1998 to September 1999. From
September 1992 to April 1998, Mr. Jenson served as Chief Financial Officer and
Senior Vice President for the National Broadcasting Company (NBC), a subsidiary
of General Electric, and participated in efforts to develop MSNBC, the
cable-Internet joint news venture between NBC and Microsoft. Mr. Jenson earned
his Masters of Accountancy -- Business Taxation, and B.S. in Accounting from
Brigham Young University.

     JOHN D. RISHER. Mr. Risher has served Amazon.com as Senior Vice President
and General Manager, US Retail Group since February 2000. Mr. Risher joined
Amazon.com in February 1997 as Vice President of Product Development. Mr. Risher
served as Senior Vice President of Product Development from November 1997 to
February 2000 and as Vice President of Product Development from February 1997 to
November 1997. From July 1991 to February 1997, Mr. Risher held a variety of
marketing and project management positions at Microsoft Corporation, including
Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for MS
Investor, Microsoft's Web site for personal investment. Mr. Risher received his
B.A. in Comparative Literature from Princeton University and his M.B.A. from
Harvard Business School.

     DIEGO PIACENTINI. Mr. Piacentini joined Amazon.com as Senior Vice President
and General Manager, International in February 2000. From April 1997 until
joining Amazon.com, Mr. Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager,
Europe of Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer's
operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. From April 1996 to April 1997,
Mr. Piacentini was European Sales Director of Apple Computer, Inc. From May 1995
until April 1996, Mr. Piacentini was General Manager of Apple Computer's Italy
operations, and before that, from September 1994 to May 1995, Mr. Piacentini was
Apple Computer's Sales Director for Italy. Mr. Piacentini joined Apple Computer
in 1987. Prior to that time he held a financial management position at
Fiatimpresit in Italy. Mr. Piacentini received a degree in Economics from
Bocconi University in Milan, Italy in 1985.

     RICHARD L. DALZELL. Mr. Dalzell joined Amazon.com in August 1997 as Vice
President and Chief Information Officer. From February 1990 to August 1997, Mr.
Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems
Division at Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President of Information
Systems from January 1994 to August 1997. From 1987 to 1990, Mr. Dalzell acted
as the Business Development Manager for E-Systems, Inc. Prior to joining
E-Systems, Inc. he served seven years in the United States Army as a
teleprocessing officer. Mr. Dalzell received a B.S. in Engineering from the
United States Military Academy, West Point.

     MARK J. BRITTO. Mr. Britto has served as Vice President, Strategic
Alliances since August 1999. From June 1999 to August 1999, Mr. Britto served as
Director of Business Development. Mr. Britto joined Amazon.com in June 1999 as
part of the acquisition of Accept.com, which he co-founded in October 1998 and
served as a Vice President. From October 1994 through October 1998, Mr. Britto
was Executive Vice President of Credit Policy at FirstUSA Bank, where he was
responsible for their credit risk management practice. Prior to that, he served
as Senior Vice President of Risk Management at NationsBank. Mr. Britto

                                       18 21

received an M.S. in Operations Research and a B.S. in Industrial Engineering and
Operations Research from the University of California at Berkeley.

     JEFFREY A. WILKE. Mr. Wilke has served as Vice President and General
Manager, Operations since September 1999. Previously, Mr. Wilke held a variety
of positions at AlliedSignal from 1995 to 1999, including Vice President and
General Manager of the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March 1999 to
September 1999 and General Manager of the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit
from August 1997 to February 1999. Prior to his employment at AlliedSignal, he
was an information technology consultant with Andersen Consulting. He received a
B.S.E. in chemical engineering from Princeton University and has an M.B.A. and
Master of Science in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

     MARK S. PEEK. Mr. Peek joined Amazon.com in March 2000 as Vice President,
Finance, and has been selected to become Chief Accounting Officer beginning
April 1, 2000. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Peek was, since 1990, a partner
at the independent public accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP where he
served as lead partner for a number of that firm's multi-national technology
clients. Mr. Peek joined Deloitte & Touche in 1980. Mr. Peek received a B.S. in
Accounting, Economics and International Business in 1980 from Minnesota State
University.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS NAME                    AGE                        POSITION
                  ----                    ---                        -------- Jeffrey P. Bezos........................  36    Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of
                                                the Board
Joseph Galli, Jr........................  41    President and Chief Operating Officer
Tom A. Alberg...........................  60    Managing Director of Madrona Venture Group, L.L.C.
Scott D. Cook...........................  47    Chairman of the Executive Committee of Intuit, Inc.
L. John Doerr...........................  48    General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
Patricia Q. Stonesifer..................  43    Co-Chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 

Item 7, "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Historical results
are not necessarily indicative of future results. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                               ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1999         1998         1997       1996        1995
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA(1):
Net sales....................................  $1,639,839    $ 609,819    $147,787    $15,746    $    511
Cost of sales................................   1,349,194      476,155     118,969     12,287         409
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
Gross profit.................................     290,645      133,664      28,818      3,459         102
Operating expenses:
  Marketing and sales........................     413,150      132,654      40,077      6,081         200
  Technology and content.....................     159,722       46,424      13,384      2,377         171
  General and administrative.................      70,144       15,618       6,741      1,408          35
  Stock-based compensation...................      30,618        1,889       1,211         36          --
  Amortization of goodwill and other
    intangibles..............................     214,694       42,599          --         --          --
  Merger, acquisition and investment-related
    costs....................................       8,072        3,535          --         --          --
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
      Total operating expenses...............     896,400      242,719      61,413      9,902         406
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
Loss from operations.........................    (605,755)    (109,055)    (32,595)    (6,443)       (304)
Interest income..............................      45,451       14,053       1,901        202           1
Interest expense.............................     (84,566)     (26,639)       (326)        (5)         --
Other income, net............................       1,671           --          --         --          --
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
      Net interest income (expense) and
         other...............................     (37,444)     (12,586)      1,575        197           1
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
Loss before equity in losses of equity-method
  investees..................................    (643,199)    (121,641)    (31,020)    (6,246)       (303)
Equity in losses of equity-method
  investees..................................     (76,769)      (2,905)         --         --          --
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    -------    --------
Net loss.....................................  $ (719,968)   $(124,546)   $(31,020)   $(6,246)   $   (303)
                                               ==========    =========    ========    =======    ========
Basic and diluted loss per share(2)..........  $    (2.20)   $   (0.42)   $  (0.12)   $ (0.03)   $  (0.00)
                                               ==========    =========    ========    =======    ========
Shares used in computation of basic and
  diluted loss per share(2)..................     326,753      296,344     260,682    222,542     172,728
                                               ==========    =========    ========    =======    ======== DECEMBER 31,
                                                    -----------------------------------------------------
                                                       1999        1998        1997       1996      1995
                                                    ----------    -------    --------    ------    ------
                                                                       (IN THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA(1):
Cash..............................................  $  116,962    $25,561    $  1,876    $  864    $  804
Marketable securities.............................     589,226    347,884     123,499     5,425       192
Working capital...................................     273,243    262,679      93,158     1,698       920
Total assets......................................   2,471,551    648,460     149,844     8,434     1,084
Long-term debt....................................   1,466,338    348,140      76,702        --        --
Stockholders' equity..............................     266,278    138,745      28,591     2,943       977 - ---------------
(1) Reflects restatement for pooling of interests. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) For further discussion of loss per share see Notes 1 and 10 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       22 25

  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This Act
provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies
to provide prospective information about themselves so long as they identify
these statements as forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements
identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ from the
projected results. All statements other than statements of historical fact,
including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of
operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are
forward looking. We use words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects,"
"future" and "intends" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations
and are inherently uncertain. The Company's actual results may differ
significantly from management's expectations. This following discussion includes
forward-looking statements regarding expectations of future profitability of the
US books business, gross margin, improvement in operating loss and sales, all of
which are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ
significantly for a variety of reasons, including the rate of growth of the
Internet and online commerce, the amount that the Company invests in new
business opportunities and the timing of those investments, customer spending
patterns, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of revenues derived
from product sales as compared to services, risks of inventory management, and
risks of distribution and fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks
and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause the
Company's actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations,
are described in greater detail in the section entitled "Business -- Additional
Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the following
discussion, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual
results to differ significantly from management's expectations.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  Net Sales 1999       % CHANGE      1998      % CHANGE      1997
                              ----------    --------    --------    --------    --------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS) Net sales...................  $1,639,839      169%      $609,819      313%      $147,787 Net sales include the selling price of products sold by us, net of returns
and gift certificate discounts, and also include outbound shipping charges.
Shipping revenue was $239 million, $94.1 million and $24.8 million in 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively. Net sales also include commissions from auctions and
zShops transactions, which include sales commissions, placement fees and fees
from payment service transactions.

     Growth in net sales in 1999 and 1998 reflects a significant increase in
units sold due to the growth of our customer base, repeat purchases from
existing customers, increased international sales, and the introduction of new
product offerings. These new product offerings include music and DVD/video in
June and November of 1998, respectively, toys and electronics in July 1999 and
home improvement, software and video games in November 1999. We increased our
issuance of promotional gift certificates to customers in 1999 to promote new
product lines, however, which partially offset such growth in net sales. The
Company had approximately 16.9 million, 6.2 million and 1.5 million cumulative
customer accounts as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
percentage of orders by repeat customers increased from 64% in the fourth
quarter of 1998 to 73% in the fourth quarter of 1999. The increase in net sales
in 1998 was also partially due to the launch of the UK and German focused Web
sites in October 1998.

                                       23 26

     Sales to customers outside of the US represented approximately 22%, 20% and
25% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

  Gross Profit 1999      % CHANGE      1998      % CHANGE     1997
                                --------    --------    --------    --------    -------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS) Gross profit..................  $290,645      117%      $133,664      364%      $28,818
Gross margin..................      17.7%                   21.9%                  19.5% Gross profit consists of net sales less the cost of sales, which consists
of the cost of merchandise sold to customers, as well as inbound and outbound
shipping costs and the cost of tangible supplies used to package product for
shipment to customers. Gross profit increased in 1999 and 1998 in absolute
dollars, reflecting the Company's increased sales volume. Gross margin decreased
in 1999 due to the introduction of new product lines, particularly toys and
electronics, and inventory-related charges of approximately $39 million incurred
in the fourth quarter of 1999. We also increased our issuance of promotional
gift certificates to customers in 1999 to promote these new product lines, which
decreased net sales and, therefore, gross margin. Additionally, we realized
lower shipping margins in 1999 due to an increase in partial shipments to
satisfy holiday demand and because of split shipments from one or more
locations, which was caused by our failure to optimize inventory at our
distribution centers. Gross margin increased in 1998 as compared to 1997 as a
result of improvements in product costs through improved supply chain
management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, as well as
higher overall shipping margins. These two factors more than offset the impact
of aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins.

     As noted above, outbound shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
Gross profit from shipping, which represents shipping revenues less outbound
shipping costs, was $11.7 million, $18.2 million and $4.4 million in 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

     We expect our overall gross margin to approach 20% for the first quarter of
2000 and for the year.

     We believe that offering our customers attractive prices is an essential
component of our business strategy. For example, we offer everyday discounts of
50% on every book on the New York Times bestseller list, up to 40% on hundreds
of thousands of titles and up to 85% on certain "special value" editions. We may
in the future expand or increase the discounts we offer to our customers and may
otherwise alter our pricing structure and policies in a manner that may
adversely impact gross profit and gross margin.

     We intend to continue to expand our operations by promoting new or
complementary products or sales formats and by expanding the breadth and depth
of our product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable to new business
areas may be different from those associated with our existing business
activities. To the extent such product lines become larger components of our
sales, we would expect a corresponding impact on overall product gross margin.

     We believe that the Amazon.com Commerce Network will tend to increase gross
margins in the future because the revenue associated with the activities
conducted by Amazon.com Commerce Network generates substantially higher gross
profit than the Company's sale of products. See "Business -- Additional Factors
That May Affect Future Results -- Our business could suffer if we are
unsuccessful in making and integrating business combinations and strategic
alliances."

     Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are
currently reviewing the financial statement classification of, and accounting
for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items by a number of
e-commerce companies, including Amazon.com. The review by these accounting
organizations may lead to new accounting standards that could require that some
or all of our fulfillment and order processing costs be classified as costs of
sales. We currently include these costs in Marketing and Sales. These new
standards could also require us to capitalize certain of our fulfillment and
order processing costs in inventory. We currently expense these costs as
incurred. We will adjust our accounting and classification of fulfillment and
order processing costs if required by accounting organizations or by the SEC.

                                       24 27

  Marketing and Sales 1999      % CHANGE      1998      % CHANGE     1997
                                --------    --------    --------    --------    -------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales...........  $413,150      211%      $132,654      231%      $40,077
Percentage of net sales.......      25.2%                   21.8%                  27.1% Marketing and sales expenses consist of advertising, promotional and public
relations expenditures, credit card fees and payroll and related expenses for
personnel engaged in marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. Fulfillment
costs included in marketing and sales expenses represent those costs incurred in
operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers, including
costs attributable to receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories;
picking, packaging and preparing customers' orders for shipment; and responding
to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted to $188.4 million, $50.3
million and $12.1 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Marketing and
sales expenses increased in 1999 and 1998 primarily due to increased payroll and
related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand, increases in our
advertising and promotional expenditures in the US, Germany and the UK, and
increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase in 1999 was
further attributable to increased advertising during the holiday season and the
promotion of the new toys, electronics, software, video games and home
improvement stores. The increase in 1998 was also attributable to the entry into
music and video sales and the launch of new Web sites targeting Germany and the
UK. Marketing and sales expenses increased as a percentage of net sales in 1999
as compared to 1998 primarily due to increases in fulfillment expenses
associated with our expansion of our distribution center network and customer
service staff during 1999. Marketing and sales expenses decreased as a
percentage of net sales in 1998 due to the significant increase in net sales. We
intend to continue our advertising and marketing activities in the future and
expect that such expenditures will continue to increase in absolute dollars,
but, as a percentage of sales, will likely decline in the future. We also expect
that fulfillment costs will decline as a percentage of sales in the future as
additional capacity of our existing distribution center network is more fully
utilized. However, due to risks related to market share, seasonality,
distribution centers, inventory management and other factors, advertising and
marketing expenditures and fulfillment costs may not decline as a percentage of
sales.

     Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are
currently reviewing the financial statement classification of, and accounting
for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items by a number of
e-commerce companies, including Amazon.com. The review by these accounting
organizations may lead to new accounting standards that could require that some
or all of our fulfillment and order processing costs be classified as costs of
sales. These new standards could also require us to capitalize certain of our
fulfillment and order processing costs in inventory. We currently expense these
costs as incurred. We will adjust our accounting and classification of
fulfillment and order processing costs if required by accounting organizations
or by the SEC.

  Technology and Content 1999      % CHANGE     1998      % CHANGE     1997
                                 --------    --------    -------    --------    -------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS) Technology and content.........  $159,722      244%      $46,424      247%      $13,384
Percentage of net sales........       9.7%                   7.6%                   9.1% Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related
expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations
personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and
costs of acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases in
technology and content expenses in 1999 and 1998 were primarily attributable to
increased staffing and associated costs related to continual enhancements to the
features, content and functionality of our Web sites and transaction-processing
systems, as well as increased investment in systems and telecommunications
infrastructure. These increases also were the result of the costs of developing,
introducing and operating new product lines, operating expenses associated with
acquired entities and, in 1998, the costs of developing, introducing and
operating new Web sites targeting Germany and the UK. Technology and content
expenses increased as a percentage of net sales in 1999 due to the significant
number of new product lines and services launched by us

                                       25 28

during the year. Technology and content expenses decreased as a percentage of
net sales in 1998 due to the significant increase in net sales. Technology and
content costs are generally expensed as incurred, except for certain costs
relating to the development of internal-use software that are capitalized and
depreciated over estimated useful lives. We believe that continued investment in
technology and content is critical to attaining our strategic objectives. In
addition to ongoing investments in our Web stores and infrastructure, we intend
to increase investments in products, services and international expansion. As a
result, we expect technology and content expenses to continue to increase in
absolute dollars.

  General and Administrative 1999      % CHANGE     1998      % CHANGE     1997
                                   -------    --------    -------    --------    ------
                                                      (IN THOUSANDS) General and administrative.......  $70,144      349%      $15,618      132%      $6,741
Percentage of net sales..........      4.3%                   2.6%                  4.6% General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses
for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional
fees and other general corporate expenses. The 1999 and 1998 increases in
general and administrative expenses were primarily a result of increased
salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring of additional personnel
and legal and other professional fees related to our growth. In both 1999 and
1998, additional expenses were incurred associated with acquired entities and
the related international expansion and expanded activities. We expect general
and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we incur
additional costs to support the growth of our business.

  Stock-based Compensation 1999      % CHANGE     1998     % CHANGE     1997
                                    -------    --------    ------    --------    ------
                                                      (IN THOUSANDS) Stock-based compensation..........  $30,618     1,521%     $1,889       56%      $1,211
Percentage of net sales...........      1.9%                  0.3%                  0.8% Stock-based compensation is comprised of the portion of acquisition-related
consideration conditioned on the continued tenure of key employees of the
acquired businesses, which must be classified as compensation expense rather
than as a component of purchase price under generally accepted accounting
principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such as
option-related deferred compensation recorded at our initial public offering, as
well as certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The increase in
stock-based compensation in 1999 resulted primarily from acquisitions closed in
1999. Stock-based compensation for 1998 and 1997 relates primarily to
option-related deferred compensation recorded at the time of our initial public
offering.

  Amortization of Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles 1999      % CHANGE     1998      % CHANGE    1997
                                     --------    --------    -------    --------    ----
                                                       (IN THOUSANDS) Amortization of goodwill and other
  purchased intangibles............  $214,694      404%      $42,599      N/M        $0 Increases in amortization of goodwill and other purchased intangibles in
1999 primarily resulted from the amortization of goodwill and other intangibles
recorded at the time of our acquisitions of Exchange.com, Alexa Internet,
Accept.com, LiveBid.com, the catalog and online commerce assets of Acme Electric
Motor Co. (Tool Crib of the North), Back to Basics Toys and other acquisitions.
In 1998, amortization charges resulted from the amortization of goodwill and
other intangibles recorded in the acquisitions of Junglee and three smaller
Internet companies. We expect that amortization charges from the acquisitions
consummated in 1999 will increase in 2000 based on a full year of amortization
for all of the acquisitions. It is likely that we will continue to expand our
business through acquisitions, which would cause amortization of goodwill and
other intangibles to increase.

                                       26 29

  Loss from Operations 1999      % CHANGE      1998      % CHANGE     1997
                                --------    --------    --------    --------    -------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS) Loss from operations..........  $605,755      455%      $109,055      235%      $32,595
Percentage of net sales.......      36.9%                   17.9%                  22.1% Our loss from operations increased from 1997 to 1998, and from 1998 to
1999, due to continued expansion of our business. Our operating expenses have
historically increased more quickly than our revenues as we have expanded our
operations. We expect that our overall loss from operations incurred in 2000
will decrease significantly as a percentage of net sales, compared to that
percentage in 1999.

  Interest Income and Expense 1999      % CHANGE     1998      % CHANGE     1997
                                   -------    --------    -------    --------    ------
                                                      (IN THOUSANDS) Interest income..................  $45,451      223%      $14,053       639%     $1,901
Interest expense.................   84,566      217%       26,639     8,071%        326 Interest income on cash and marketable securities increased in 1999 due to
higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the issuance of
$1.25 billion of 4 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009 (the
"Convertible Subordinated Notes") in February 1999 and increased in 1998 due to
the issuance of approximately $326 million gross proceeds of 10% Senior Discount
Notes due May 1, 2008 (the "Senior Discount Notes") in May 1998. Interest
expense increased in 1999 and 1998 due to the interest expense associated with
this debt, as well as amortization of deferred charges associated with issuance
of the notes.

     On February 16, 2000, we completed an offering of E690,000,000
($680,685,000 as of February 11, 2000) of 6.875% Convertible Subordinated Notes
due 2010, also known as Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities, or "PEACS."
Therefore, we expect interest expense to increase in the future for interest
associated with these notes.

  Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees 1999      % CHANGE     1998     % CHANGE    1997
                                       -------    --------    ------    --------    ----
                                                        (IN THOUSANDS) Equity in losses of equity-method
  investees..........................  $76,769     2,543%     $2,905      N/M       $ 0 Equity in losses of equity-method investees represents our share of losses
of companies in which we have investments that give us the ability to exercise
significant influence, but not control, over an investee. This is generally
defined as an ownership interest of the voting stock of the investee of between
20% and 50%. We made several equity-method investments in 1999 and increased our
investment in the equity-method investment we made in 1998. We expect to make
additional equity-method investments in the future. Many of the companies in
which we have invested to date are in the early stage of their operations and
are incurring net losses. Therefore, we expect to continue to record losses on
our equity-method investments.

     In July 1999, one of our equity-method investees, drugstore.com, inc.,
completed the initial public offering of its common stock. drugstore.com
operates an online retail store and information site for health, beauty,
wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. In connection with this
transaction, we recorded a contribution to additional paid-in capital of $13.8
million, representing the difference between the carrying value of our
investment and the underlying net book value of drugstore.com after the IPO. Two
of our other equity-method investees, Pets.com and Homegrocer.com, completed
their IPOs in February 2000 and March 2000, respectively. We therefore will
record a contribution to additional paid-in capital in connection with these
transactions, and it is reasonably possible that other equity-method investees
may complete IPOs in the future.

                                       27 30

  Income Taxes

     We did not provide any current or deferred US federal, state or foreign
income tax provision or benefit for any of the periods presented because we have
experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization of our net operating
loss carryforwards, which begin to expire in 2010, may be subject to certain
limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. We have provided a full
valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily of net
operating loss carryforwards, because of uncertainty regarding its
realizability.

PRO FORMA INFORMATION

     Pro forma information regarding our results, which excludes amortization of
goodwill and other intangibles, stock-based compensation, equity in losses of
equity-method investees and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs, is
as follows: YEAR ENDED
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                                     1999
                                                             ---------------------
                                                             (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT
                                                               PER SHARE AMOUNT) Pro forma loss from operations.............................        $(352,371)
Pro forma net loss.........................................        $(389,815)
Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share.................        $   (1.19)
Shares used in computation of pro forma basic and diluted
  loss per share...........................................          326,753 Using the methodology described above to derive pro forma loss from
operations, our US books business was profitable in the fourth quarter of 1999
and we expect this business to be profitable in 2000. The pro forma results are
presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     At December 31, 1999, our cash balance was $117 million, compared to $25.6
million at December 31, 1998. Our marketable securities balance, which includes
highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less, was $589.2
million and $347.9 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     Net cash used by operating activities amounted to $90.9 million for 1999.
This was primarily attributable to the net loss for the year of $720 million,
partially offset by non-cash charges related to depreciation, stock-based
compensation, amortization of goodwill and other purchased intangibles, and
equity in losses of equity-method investees totaling $358.9 million, as well as
$230.1 million of cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities is primarily a
function of an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, offset by
an increase in inventories and prepaid expenses and other current assets. For
1998, net cash provided by operating activities was $31 million and was
primarily attributable to non-cash expenses and increases in accounts payable
and accrued expenses, largely offset by the net loss and increases in
inventories and prepaid expenses and other.

     Net cash used in investing activities was $922.3 million in 1999 and
consisted of net purchases of marketable securities of $265.6 million, purchases
of fixed assets of $287.1 million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments
in businesses of $369.6 million. Net cash used in investing activities during
1998 was $261.8 million and consisted of net purchases of marketable securities
of $214.5 million, purchases of fixed assets of $28.3 million and cash paid for
acquisitions and investments in businesses of $19 million.

     Net cash provided by financing activities of $1.104 billion for 1999 was
primarily due to $1.25 billion of proceeds from the sale of our Convertible
Subordinated Notes in February 1999, partially offset by repayment of long-term
debt, including $178.4 million of cash paid to repurchase a portion of our
outstanding Senior Discount Notes. Net cash provided by financing activities of
$254.5 million for 1998 primarily resulted from

                                       28 31

net proceeds of approximately $318.2 million from the Senior Discount Notes
offering offset by the repayment of $78.1 million of long-term debt.

     As of December 31, 1999, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of
$706.2 million of cash and marketable securities. As of that date, our principal
commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under our Convertible
Subordinated Notes due 2009 and Senior Discount Notes, as well as obligations in
connection with operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional
arrangements. During 1999, we undertook a substantial expansion of our
distribution center network in the US, adding six distribution centers in the
US. We also opened new distribution centers in the UK and Germany. We anticipate
that our current distribution center capacity in the US will be adequate for our
needs for at least the next 12 months, but we may require additional capacity in
international markets.

     In May 1998, we completed the offering of approximately $326 million gross
proceeds of the Senior Discount Notes, in February 1999, we completed the
offering of approximately $1.25 billion Convertible Subordinated Notes, and in
February 2000, we completed the offering of E690 million of 6.875% Convertible
Subordinated Notes due 2010, also knows as PEACS. See Notes 7 and 15 to
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference to   

  Item 8 of Part
II.

     We believe that current cash and marketable securities balances, together
with net proceeds from the PEACS, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated
operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections
of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. If
current cash, marketable securities and cash that may be generated from
operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek
to sell additional equity or debt securities or to obtain credit facilities from
lenders. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could
result in additional dilution to the Company's stockholders. In addition, we
will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of or investment in
complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the
repurchase and retirement of debt, which might impact our liquidity requirements
or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no
assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to
us, if at all.

YEAR 2000 IMPLICATIONS

     Many currently installed computer systems, software programs and embedded
data chips are programmed using a two-digit date field and are therefore unable
to distinguish dates beyond the 20th century. A failure to identify and correct
any mission-critical internal or third-party year 2000 processing problem could
have a material adverse operational or financial consequence to us.

     We established a Year 2000 Project Team that, together with external
consultants, developed a process for addressing the year 2000 issue, including
performing an inventory, an assessment, remediation procedures (to the extent
necessary) and testing procedures of all mission-critical information systems
and equipment and machinery that contain embedded technology, as well as
obtaining assurances from all mission-critical third parties as to their own
year 2000 preparedness. As of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form
10-K, all of our mission-critical systems have been successfully tested for year
2000 compliance, and we have not experienced any significant year 2000 problems
with our own mission-critical systems or any mission-critical third parties.
Although we have not experienced any significant year 2000 problems to date, we
plan to continue to monitor the situation closely.

     We cannot be sure that we will be completely successful in our efforts to
address the year 2000 issue or that problems arising from the year 2000 issue
will not cause a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial
condition. We believe, however, that our most reasonably likely worst-case
scenario would relate to problems with the systems of third parties rather than
with our internal systems. We are limited in our efforts to address the year
2000 issue as it relates to third parties and rely solely on the assurances of
these third parties as to their year 2000 preparedness.

     As part of our broader contingency planning, we also developed business
continuity plans to address each critical process and activity that we believe
would cause a significant disruption to operations if not functional for 24
hours. Despite these efforts, we cannot guarantee that the contingency plan will
adequately address all

                                       29 32

circumstances that may disrupt operations or that such planning will prevent
circumstances that may cause a material adverse effect on our operating results
or financial condition.



 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We do not have any derivative financial instruments in our marketable
securities portfolio as of December 31, 1999. However, we are exposed to
interest rate risk on debt instruments we hold. We employ established policies
and procedures to manage our exposure to changes in the market risk of our
marketable securities, which are classified as available-for-sale as of December
31, 1999 and 1998. Our Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Subordinated Notes,
PEACS and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value of
these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. We believe
that the market risk arising from holdings of our financial instruments is not
material.

     Our exposure to currency exchange risk through December 31, 1999 has not
been material. However, with the completion of the offering of PEACS notes on
February 16, 2000, we will be exposed to currency exchange risk because the debt
is denominated in euros while our functional currency is the US dollar. We plan
to employ established policies and procedures to mitigate the risk of exchange
rate fluctuations. Additionally, the conversion price for the PEACS is
denominated in euros.

     Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about
market risk is set forth below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources."

     The table below provides information about our marketable securities,
including principal cash flows for 2000 through 2004 and the related weighted
average interest rates.

     Principal (notional) amounts by expected maturity in US dollars as of
December 31, 1999: ESTIMATED FAIR
                                                                                                             VALUE AT
                                                                                                           DECEMBER 31,
                                2000       2001      2002      2003     2004     THEREAFTER    TOTAL           1999
                               -------   --------   -------   ------   -------   ----------   --------    -------------- Commercial paper and
  short-term obligations.....  $37,476   $  6,250   $12,176   $1,047   $ 9,599    $  8,236    $ 74,784       $ 73,557
Weighted average interest
  rate.......................     5.80%      8.58%     8.96%    6.61%     6.98%       7.00%       6.84%
Corporate notes and bonds....    2,455    102,850        --       --        --          --     105,305        103,844
Weighted average interest
  rate.......................     5.80%      6.70%       --       --        --          --        6.68%
Asset-backed and agency
  securities.................   32,807     81,160    24,198       25    20,119     100,246     258,555        247,667
Weighted average interest
  rate.......................    20.20%      8.48%     7.49%    7.68%     7.00%       7.97%       9.56%
Treasury notes and bonds.....   12,400    127,795    20,000    3,950        --          --     164,145        164,158
Weighted average interest
  rate.......................     5.21%      6.60%     0.00%    6.07%       --          --        5.68%
                               -------   --------   -------   ------   -------    --------    --------       --------
    Total Portfolio..........  $85,138   $318,055   $56,374   $5,022   $29,718    $108,482    $602,789       $589,226
                               =======   ========   =======   ======   =======    ========    ========       ======== Principal (notional) amounts by expected maturity in US dollars as of
December 31, 1998: ESTIMATED FAIR
                                                                                                              VALUE AT
                                                                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                  1999      2000      2001      2002      2003     THEREAFTER    TOTAL          1998
                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------   --------   -------------- Commercial paper and
  short-term obligations......  $114,579   $    --   $    --   $    --   $    --    $    --     $114,579      $114,180
Weighted average interest
  rate........................      5.34%                                                           5.34%
Corporate notes and bonds.....     4,250    46,500        --        --        --         --       50,750        51,351
Weighted average interest
  rate........................      5.90%     5.20%                                                 5.26%
Asset-backed and agency
  securities..................        --    21,500     8,746     7,087    10,086     35,497       82,916        83,569
Weighted average interest
  rate........................                5.57%     5.16%     5.29%     5.64%      5.82%        5.62%
Treasury notes and bonds......     8,700    27,400    42,175     8,000        --         --       86,275        89,013
Weighted average interest
  rate........................      5.63%     4.89%     4.64%     4.71%                             4.82%
                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------    -------     --------      --------
    Total Portfolio, excluding
      equity securities.......  $127,529   $95,400   $50,921   $15,087   $10,086    $35,497     $334,520      $338,113
                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======    =======     ========      ======== 30 33

 

  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE
                                                              ---- Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors...........   32
Consolidated Balance Sheets.................................   33
Consolidated Statements of Operations.......................   34
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity.............   35
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.......................   36
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   37 31 34

               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Amazon.com, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com,
Inc. as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1999. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at 

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................   18
  

 Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk...   25
 

  Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   26


Item 7, "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Historical results
are not necessarily indicative of future results. PERIOD FROM
                                                                                              JULY 5, 1994
                                                       YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,              (INCEPTION) TO
                                             --------------------------------------------     DECEMBER 31,
                                               1998         1997        1996       1995           1994
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------    --------------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA (1):
Net sales..................................  $ 609,996    $147,787    $ 15,746    $   511       $    --
Cost of sales..............................    476,155     118,969      12,287        409            --
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------       -------
Gross profit...............................    133,841      28,818       3,459        102            --
Operating expenses:
  Marketing and sales......................    133,023      40,486       6,090        200            --
  Product development......................     46,807      13,916       2,401        171            38
  General and administrative...............     15,799       7,011       1,411         35            14
  Merger and acquisition related costs,
    including amortization of goodwill and
    other purchased intangibles............     50,172          --          --         --            --
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------       -------
         Total operating expenses..........    245,801      61,413       9,902        406            52
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------       -------
Loss from operations.......................   (111,960)    (32,595)     (6,443)      (304)          (52)
Interest income............................     14,053       1,901         202          1            --
Interest expense...........................    (26,639)       (326)         (5)        --            --
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------       -------
         Net interest income (expense).....    (12,586)      1,575         197          1            --
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------       -------
Net loss...................................  $(124,546)   $(31,020)   $ (6,246)   $  (303)      $   (52)
                                             =========    ========    ========    =======       =======
Basic and diluted loss per share (2).......  $   (0.84)   $  (0.24)   $  (0.06)   $ (0.00)      $ (0.00)
                                             =========    ========    ========    =======       =======
Shares used in computation of basic and
  diluted loss per share (2)...............    148,172     130,341     111,271     86,364        79,146
                                             =========    ========    ========    =======       ======= DECEMBER 31,
                                             --------------------------------------------------------------
                                               1998         1997        1996       1995           1994
                                             ---------    --------    --------    -------    --------------
                                                                     (IN THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA (1):
Cash.......................................  $  25,561    $  1,876    $    864    $   804       $    52
Marketable securities......................    347,884     123,499       5,425        192            --
Working capital (deficiency)...............    262,679      93,158       1,698        920           (16)
Total assets...............................    648,460     149,844       8,434      1,084            76
Long-term debt.............................    348,140      76,702          --         --            --
Stockholders' equity.......................    138,745      28,591       2,943        977             8 - ---------------
(1) Reflects restatement for pooling of interests. See Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
(2) For further discussion of loss per share see Notes 1 and 8 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
                                       17 18
 
  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This Act
provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies
to provide prospective information about themselves so long as they identify
these statements as forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements
identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ from the
projected results. All statements other than statements of historical fact made
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward looking. In particular, the
statements herein regarding industry prospects and future results of operations
or financial position are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
reflect management's current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The
Company's actual results may differ significantly from management's
expectations. The following discussion and the section entitled
"Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results" describes some,
but not all, of the factors that could cause these differences.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  Net Sales 1998      % CHANGE      1997      % CHANGE     1996
                                --------    --------    --------    --------    -------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS) Net sales.....................  $609,996      313%      $147,787      839%      $15,746 Net sales are composed of the selling price of books, music and other
products and services sold by the Company, net of returns, as well as outbound
shipping and handling charges. Growth in net sales in 1998 and 1997 reflects a
significant increase in units sold due to the growth of the Company's customer
base and repeat purchases from the Company's existing customers. The Company had
approximately 6.2 million and 1.5 million cumulative customer accounts as of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Repeat customer orders accounted for
over 60% of orders placed on the Amazon.com Web site during the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1998. Additionally, the increase in net sales in 1998 was
partially due to the opening of the music store in June 1998, the United Kingdom
and German stores in October 1998 and the video store in November 1998.
 
     International sales, including export sales from the United States,
represented approximately 20%, 25% and 33% of net sales for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Although there can be no
assurances, the Company does not expect the introduction of the Euro resulting
from the European Monetary Union to significantly impact our competitive
position or operations.
 
  Gross Profit 1998      % CHANGE     1997      % CHANGE     1996
                                  --------    --------    -------    --------    ------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS) Gross profit....................  $133,841      364%      $28,818      733%      $3,459
Gross margin....................      21.9%                  19.5%                 22.0% Gross profit consists of sales less the cost of sales, which consists of
the cost of merchandise sold to customers, as well as outbound and inbound
shipping costs. Gross profit increased in 1998 and 1997 in absolute dollars,
reflecting the Company's increased sales volume. Gross margin increased in 1998
as a result of improvements in product costs through improved supply chain
management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, which
together more than offset the impact of aggressive product pricing and lower
music and video margins. Gross margin decreased in 1997 due to a combination of
lower prices and lower overall shipping margins, partially offset by
improvements in product cost.
 
     The Company believes that offering its customers attractive prices is an
essential component of its business strategy. Accordingly, the Company offers
everyday discounts of up to 40% on hundreds of
 
                                       18 19
 
thousands of titles and certain "special value" editions discounted up to 85%.
The Company may in the future expand or increase the discounts it offers to its
customers and may otherwise alter its pricing structure and policies.
 
     The Company over time intends to expand its operations by promoting new or
complementary products or sales formats and by expanding the breadth and depth
of its product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable to new business
areas may be lower than those associated with the Company's existing business
activities. In particular, in June 1998 the Company launched its new music store
and in November 1998 launched a video store. Music and video gross margins are
lower than book gross margins. To the extent music and video become a larger
portion of the Company's product mix, it is expected to have a proportionate
impact on overall product gross margin.
 
  Marketing and Sales 1998      % CHANGE     1997      % CHANGE     1996
                                  --------    --------    -------    --------    ------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales.............  $133,023      229%      $40,486      565%      $6,090
Percentage of net sales.........      21.8%                  27.4%                 38.7% Marketing and sales expenses consist primarily of advertising, promotional
and public relations expenditures, as well as payroll and related expenses for
personnel engaged in marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. All
fulfillment costs not included in cost of sales, including the cost of operating
and staffing distribution centers and customer service, are included in
marketing and sales. The Company expects its costs of fulfillment to increase
based primarily on anticipated sales growth and its planned distribution network
expansion. Marketing and sales expenses increased in 1998 and 1997 primarily due
to increases in the Company's advertising and promotional expenditures,
increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand
and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase in 1998
was also attributable to the entry into music and video sales and the launch of
new stores in Germany and the United Kingdom. Marketing and sales expenses
decreased as a percentage of net sales due to the significant increase in net
sales. The Company intends to continue to pursue its aggressive branding and
marketing campaign, which includes radio, television and print advertising and
significant expenditures for online promotion and advertising relationships. In
addition, the Company intends to increase investments in marketing, promotion
and fulfillment activities related to its product, service and international
expansion. As a result of the foregoing, the Company expects marketing and sales
expenses to increase significantly in absolute dollars.
 
  Product Development 1998      % CHANGE     1997      % CHANGE     1996
                                   -------    --------    -------    --------    ------
                                                      (IN THOUSANDS) Product development..............  $46,807      236%      $13,916      480%      $2,401
Percentage of net sales..........      7.7%                   9.4%                 15.2% Product development expenses consist principally of payroll and related
expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations
personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and
costs of acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases in product
development expenses in 1998 and 1997 were primarily attributable to increased
staffing and costs related to continual feature, content and functionality
enhancements to the Company's Web sites and transaction-processing systems, as
well as increased investment in systems and telecommunications infrastructure.
Such increases in 1998 included investments associated with the entry into music
and video sales, the launch of an enhanced holiday gift store, new stores in
Germany and the United Kingdom and operating expenses associated with the
acquired entities. Product development expenses decreased as a percentage of net
sales due to the significant increase in net sales. To date, product development
costs have been expensed as incurred. The Company believes that continued
investment in product development is critical to attaining its strategic
objectives. In addition to ongoing investments in its Web stores and
infrastructure,
 
                                       19 20
 
the Company intends to increase investments in products, services and
international expansion. As a result, the Company expects product development
expenses to increase significantly in absolute dollars.
 
  General and Administrative 1998      % CHANGE     1997     % CHANGE     1996
                                    -------    --------    ------    --------    ------
                                                      (IN THOUSANDS) General and administrative........  $15,799      125%      $7,011      397%      $1,411
Percentage of net sales...........      2.6%                  4.7%                  9.0% General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses
for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional
fees and other general corporate expenses. The 1998 and 1997 increases in
general and administrative expenses were primarily a result of increased
salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring of additional personnel
and legal and other professional fees related to the Company's growth. In 1998,
additional expenses were incurred associated with the acquired entities and the
related international expansion and expanded activities. Beginning in 1997,
general and administrative costs have included costs attributable to being a
public company. General and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of
net sales due to the significant increase in net sales. The Company expects
general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as the
Company expands its staff and incurs additional costs related to the growth of
its business, including investments associated with products, services and
international expansion.
 
  Merger and Acquisition Related Costs, Including Amortization of Goodwill and
Other Purchased Intangibles
 
     Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization of goodwill
and other purchased intangibles, were approximately $50.2 million or 8.2% of net
sales in 1998. These costs were recorded in connection with the Company's April
1998 acquisitions of three Internet companies and its August 1998 acquisition of
Junglee. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. Additionally, certain transaction costs were incurred in connection
with the August 1998 merger with PlanetAll, which was accounted for under the
pooling of interests method of accounting. Merger and acquisition related costs
consist of amortization of goodwill and other purchased intangibles of
approximately $42.6 million, as well as approximately $7.6 million, composed
primarily of equity in loss of investee and other merger and acquisition related
costs. The Company anticipates that future amortization of goodwill and other
purchased intangibles associated with its 1998 acquisitions will continue to be
amortized on a straight-line basis over lives of up to approximately three
years, and will amount to approximately $22 million per quarter until March 2000
and approximately $15 million per quarter thereafter until the related goodwill
and other purchased intangibles are fully amortized. It is likely that the
Company will continue to expand its business through acquisitions and internal
development. Any additional acquisitions or impairment of goodwill and other
purchased intangibles, as well as equity in losses of equity investees, could
result in additional merger and acquisition related costs.
 
  Interest Income and Expense 1998      % CHANGE     1997     % CHANGE    1996
                                      -------    --------    ------    --------    ----
                                                       (IN THOUSANDS) Interest income.....................  $14,053      639%      $1,901      841%      $202
Interest expense....................  (26,639)     N/M         (326)     N/M         (5) Interest income on cash and marketable securities increased in 1998 due to
higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the Senior Discount
Notes issued in May 1998, and in 1997 due to higher investment balances
resulting from the proceeds of the Company's initial public offering in May
1997. Interest expense in 1998 includes interest and amortization of deferred
charges related to the Senior Discount Notes.
 
     Interest expense in 1998 and 1997 consists of interest and amortization of
deferred charges related to the Company's $75 million three-year senior secured
term loan (the "Senior Loan") entered into in
 
                                       20 21
 
December 1997, as well as asset acquisitions financed through loans and capital
leases. In 1998, interest expense also includes the write-off of $2.0 million of
unamortized loan fees following prepayment of the Senior Loan in May 1998.
 
     The Company expects interest expense to increase in the future as a result
of the Senior Discount Notes, the Convertible Notes and potentially increased
financing of asset acquisitions through loans and capital leases. The Company
also expects interest income to increase because of higher cash balances
resulting from the net proceeds of the Convertible Notes.
 
  Income Taxes
 
     The Company did not provide any current or deferred U.S. federal, state or
foreign income tax provision or benefit for any of the periods presented because
it has experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization of the
Company's net operating loss carryforwards, which begin to expire in 2011, may
be subject to certain limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended. The Company has provided a full valuation allowance on the
deferred tax asset, consisting primarily of net operating loss carryforwards,
because of uncertainty regarding its realizability.
 
PRO FORMA INFORMATION
 
     In April 1998, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of
three Internet companies. Each of the acquisitions was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. The aggregate purchase price of the three
acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $55 million. The
consideration for the acquisitions was comprised of common stock and cash. The
Company issued an aggregate of approximately 3.2 million shares of common stock
to affect the transactions. The Company is amortizing the goodwill resulting
from the acquisitions on a straight-line basis over approximately two years.
 
     In August 1998, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
of Junglee. The Company issued approximately 4.7 million shares of common stock
and assumed all outstanding options and warrants in connection with the
acquisition of Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting, with substantially all of the approximately $180
million purchase price allocated to goodwill and other purchased intangibles.
The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three
years.
 
     In August 1998, the Company exchanged common stock and options for all of
the outstanding capital stock of PlanetAll. The Company issued approximately 2.4
million shares of common stock and assumed all outstanding options in connection
with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for as a pooling of
interests and, as a result, the Company's consolidated financial statements have
been restated for all periods presented.
 
     As of December 31, 1998, the Company has an investment of approximately 46%
in drugstore.com, inc., an online drugstore, that is accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, the
Company's share of the investee's earnings or loss is included in consolidated
operating results. The Company's basis in its equity investment is classified
within other purchased intangibles in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet and the Company's share of the investee's loss is classified in merger and
acquisition related costs, including amortization of goodwill and other
purchased intangibles. To date, this investment has not materially impacted the
Company's results of operations or its financial position.
 
     Pro forma information regarding the Company's results, excluding
approximately $50.2 million of merger and acquisition related costs, which
include amortization of goodwill and other purchased
 
                                       21 22
 
intangibles, for the business combinations discussed above, as well as the
Company's share of losses from its investee, is as follows: YEAR ENDED
                                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                                                   1998
                                                              --------------
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS) Pro forma loss from operations..............................     $(61,788)
Pro forma net loss..........................................     $(74,374)
Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share..................     $  (0.50)
Shares used in computation of basic and diluted loss per
  share.....................................................      148,172 The pro forma results for the year ended December 31, 1998 are presented
for informational purposes only and are not prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     At December 31, 1998, the Company's cash was $25.6 million, compared to
$1.9 million at December 31, 1997. Marketable securities balances, which include
highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less, were $347.9
million and $123.5 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities of $31.0 million and $687,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, was primarily
attributable to increases in accounts payable, other liabilities and accrued
expenses, accrued advertising and non-cash expenses, largely offset by the net
loss and increases in inventories and prepaid expenses and other.
 
     Net cash used in investing activities was $261.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998 and consisted of net purchases of marketable securities,
purchases of fixed assets, and acquisitions, dispositions and investments in
businesses. For the year ended December 31, 1997, net cash used in investing
activities was $125.7 million and consisted of net purchases of marketable
securities and purchases of fixed assets.
 
     Net cash provided by financing activities of $254.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 1998 resulted from net proceeds of approximately $318.2
million from the Senior Discount Notes offering, net proceeds of approximately
$8.4 million from PlanetAll's issuance of capital stock, and proceeds from the
exercise of stock options of $6.0 million, partially offset by the repayment of
the Senior Loan. Net cash provided by financing activities of $126.0 million for
the year ended December 31, 1997 resulted primarily from net proceeds from the
Senior Loan, the Company's initial public offering and PlanetAll's issuance of
capital stock.
 
     As of December 31, 1998, the Company's principal sources of liquidity
consisted of $373.4 million of cash and marketable securities. As of that date,
the Company's principal commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under
its Senior Discount Notes, obligations in connection with the acquisition of
fixed assets, operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional
arrangements. The Company anticipates a substantial increase in its capital
expenditures and lease commitments consistent with anticipated growth in
operations, infrastructure and personnel, including growth associated with
product and service offerings, geographic expansion and integration of business
combinations. For example, in August 1998, the Company entered into a long-term
office lease, which will result in increased lease obligations commencing in
1999, and, in December 1998, the Company leased a highly mechanized distribution
facility in Fernley, Nevada, which is expected to begin operations in 1999.
Bringing these facilities to operational readiness will require significant
leasehold improvement and capital expenditures, and require the Company to stock
inventories, purchase fixed assets and hire and train employees.
 
     The Company intends to establish one or more additional distribution
centers within the next 12 months, which would require it to commit to lease
obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees
and install leasehold improvements. In addition, the Company has announced plans
to continue developing distribution infrastructure to increase efficiency and
support greater customer
 
                                       22 23
 
demand and to increase its inventory to provide better availability to customers
and achieve purchasing efficiencies.
 
  Senior Discount Notes
 
     In May 1998, the Company completed the offering of approximately $326
million gross proceeds of the Senior Discount Notes. Pursuant to a registration
statement on Form S-4, in September 1998, the Company completed an exchange
offer of 10% Senior Discount Notes due 2008 (the "Exchange Notes"), which were
registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"),
for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical
terms in all material respects to the terms of the original Senior Discount
Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the
Exchange Notes are referred to throughout this Annual Report interchangeably
with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the
indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Senior Notes
Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold at a substantial discount from
their principal amount at maturity of $530 million. Prior to November 1, 2003,
no cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during
this period to the $530 million aggregate principal amount at maturity. From and
after May 1, 2003, the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest at the rate of
10% per annum payable in cash on each May 1 and November 1. The Senior Discount
Notes are redeemable, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any
time on or after May 1, 2003, at the redemption prices set forth in the Senior
Notes Indenture, plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of redemption.
 
     Upon a Change of Control (as defined in the Senior Notes Indenture), the
Company would be required to make an offer to purchase the Senior Discount Notes
at a purchase price equal to 101% of their Accreted Value on the date of
purchase, plus accrued interest, if any. There can be no assurance that the
Company would have sufficient funds available at the time of any Change of
Control to make any required debt repayment (including repurchases of the Senior
Discount Notes).
 
     The Senior Notes Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other
things, limit the ability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (as
defined in the Senior Notes Indenture) to incur indebtedness, pay dividends,
prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments,
create liens, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell
assets and engage in mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are
subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was
in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 1998.
 
  Convertible Subordinated Notes
 
     In February 1999, the Company completed an offering of approximately $1.25
billion of the Convertible Notes. Interest payments on the Convertible Notes of
4 3/4% per annum are due and payable semiannually in arrears in cash on February
1 and August 1 of each year, commencing August 1, 1999. The Convertible Notes
are unsecured and are subordinated to all existing and future Senior
Indebtedness as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes (the
"Convertible Notes Indenture"). The Convertible Notes are generally convertible
into common stock of the Company, unless redeemed or repaid prior to maturity,
at a conversion price of $156.055 per share. The Convertible Notes may be
redeemed by the Company (the "Provisional Redemption"), in whole or in part, at
any time prior to February 6, 2002, at a redemption price equal to $1,000 per
Convertible Note to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the
date of redemption (the "Provisional Redemption Date") if (1) the closing price
of the common stock shall have exceeded 150% of the conversion price then in
effect for at least 20 trading days in any consecutive 30-trading day period and
(2) the shelf registration statement covering resales of the Convertible Notes
and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes is
effective and available for use and is expected to remain effective and
available for use for the 30 days following the Provisional Redemption Date.
Upon any Provisional Redemption, the Company will make an additional payment in
cash with respect to the Convertible Notes called for redemption in an amount
equal to $212.60 per $1,000 Convertible Note, less the amount of any interest
actually paid on such Convertible Note prior to the call for redemption. The
Company must make these
                                       23 24
 
payments on all of the Convertible Notes called for redemption, including
Convertible Notes called after the date of the call for redemption. After
February 6, 2002, the Convertible Notes will be redeemable on at least 30 days'
notice at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time, at the
redemption prices set forth in the Convertible Notes Indenture.
 
     Upon occurrence of any Fundamental Change (as defined in the Convertible
Notes Indenture) prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, each holder of
the Convertible Notes has the right to require the Company to redeem all or any
part of the holder's Convertible Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal
amount, plus any accrued interest, of the Convertible Notes being redeemed.
 
     The Company will, for the benefit of the holders, file with the Securities
and Exchange Commission as soon as practicable, but in any event within 90 days
after the first date of original issuance of the Convertible Notes, a shelf
registration statement covering resales of the Convertible Notes and the common
stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes.
 
     The Company has or may use the net proceeds from the offering of the
Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital to
fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion of the Company's core business,
investments in new business segments and markets, capital expenditures,
acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products and
technologies and repurchases and retirement of debt.
 
     The Company believes that current cash and marketable securities balances,
together with net proceeds from the Convertible Notes, will be sufficient to
meet its anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any
projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial
uncertainty. If current cash, marketable securities and cash that may be
generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy the Company's liquidity
requirements, the Company may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities
or to obtain a line of credit. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt
securities could result in additional dilution to the Company's stockholders. In
addition, the Company will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of or
investment in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and
the repurchase and retirement of debt, which might impact the Company's
liquidity requirements or cause the Company to issue additional equity or debt
securities. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in
amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all.
 
YEAR 2000 IMPLICATIONS
 
     Many current installed computer systems and software may be coded to accept
only two-digit entries in the date code field and cannot distinguish 21st
century dates from 20th century dates. As a result, many software and computer
systems may need to be upgraded or replaced. The Company is in the process of
assessing the Year 2000 issue and expects to complete the program in the second
quarter of 1999. The Company has not incurred material costs to date in the
process, and does not believe that the cost of additional actions will have a
material effect on its operating results or financial condition. However, the
Company has established a budget totaling approximately $1 million for the
acquisition of contract software services that will assist in the Year 2000
assessment and remediation activities to be completed no later than the third
quarter of 1999. Amazon.com's current systems and products may contain
undetected errors or defects with Year 2000 date functions that may result in
material costs. In addition, the Company utilizes third-party equipment,
software and content, including non-information technology systems, such as
security systems, building equipment and embedded micro-controllers that may not
be Year 2000 compliant. The Company is in the process of developing a plan to
assess whether its internally developed software, third-party systems and
non-information technology systems are adequately addressing the Year 2000
issue. Failure of third-party equipment, software or content to operate properly
with regard to the Year 2000 issue could require the Company to incur
unanticipated expenses to remedy problems, which could have a material adverse
effect on its business, operating results and financial condition.
 
     Amazon.com is assessing whether third parties in its supply and
distribution chain are adequately addressing their Year 2000 compliance issues.
The Company has initiated formal communications with its significant suppliers
and service providers to determine the extent to which its systems may be
vulnerable
                                       24 25
 
if such suppliers and providers fail to address and correct their own Year 2000
issues. The Company cannot guarantee that the systems of suppliers or other
companies on which the Company relies will be Year 2000 compliant. The Company
is in the process of developing a contingency plan that will address situations
that may result should Year 2000 compliance for critical operations not be fully
achieved in 1999.
 
  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     The Company does not have any derivative financial instruments as of
December 31, 1998. However, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk. The
Company employs established policies and procedures to manage its exposure to
changes in the market risk of its marketable securities, which are classified as
available-for-sale as of December 31, 1998. The Company's Senior Discount Notes,
Convertible Notes and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the
fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates.
The Company believes that the market risk arising from holdings of its financial
instruments is not material.
 
     Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about
market risk is set forth below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources."
 
     The table below provides information about the Company's marketable
securities, including principal cash flows for 1999 through 2003 and the related
weighted average interest rates.
 
     Principal (notional) amounts by expected maturity in U.S. dollars (in
thousands): ESTIMATED FAIR
                                                                                                                   VALUE AT
                                                                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                       1999      2000      2001      2002      2003     THEREAFTER    TOTAL          1998
                                     --------   -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------   --------   -------------- Commercial paper and short-term
  obligations......................  $114,579   $    --   $    --   $    --   $    --    $    --     $114,579      $114,180
Weighted average interest rate.....      5.34%                                                           5.34%
 
Corporate notes and bonds..........     4,250    46,500        --        --        --         --       50,750        51,351
Weighted average interest rate.....      5.90%     5.20%                                                 5.26%
 
Asset-backed and agency
  securities.......................        --    21,500     8,746     7,087    10,086     35,497       82,916        83,569
Weighted average interest rate.....                5.57%     5.16%     5.29%     5.64%      5.82%        5.62%
 
Treasury notes and bonds...........     8,700    27,400    42,175     8,000        --         --       86,275        89,013
Weighted average interest rate.....      5.63%     4.89%     4.64%     4.71%                             4.82%
                                     --------   -------   -------   -------   -------    -------     --------      --------
    Total Portfolio, excluding
      equity securities............  $127,529   $95,400   $50,921   $15,087   $10,086    $35,497     $334,520      $338,113
                                     ========   =======   =======   =======   =======    =======     ========      ======== 25 26
 
 

  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE
                                                              ---- Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors...........   27
Consolidated Balance Sheets.................................   28
Consolidated Statements of Operations.......................   29
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity.............   30
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.......................   31
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   32 26 27
 
               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Amazon.com, Inc.
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com,
Inc. as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1998. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About
    Market Risk 40  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 

Item 7 of Part II —
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Forward-Looking
Statements.” General Amazon.com, Inc., a Fortune 500 company,
commenced operations on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek
to offer Earth’s Biggest Selection and to be Earth’s
most customer-centric company, where customers can find and
discover anything they may want to buy online. We endeavor to
offer our customers the lowest possible prices. We and our
sellers list millions of unique new, used and collectible items
in categories such as apparel and accessories, electronics,
computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos,
cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and
baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones
and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine
subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through our Merchants@
and Amazon Marketplace programs, zShops and Auctions, any
business or individual can sell virtually anything to
Amazon.com’s millions of customers. We operate six global Web sites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de,
www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.co.jp and www.amazon.ca . We
also own and operate the Internet Movie Database at www.imdb.com (“IMDb”), which is a comprehensive
and authoritative source of information on movie and
entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb
Pro, a subscription service designed for the entertainment
industry. Amazon.com was incorporated in 1994 in the state
of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of
Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in
Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public offering in
May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National
Market under the symbol “AMZN.” As used herein, “Amazon.com,”
“we,” “our” and similar terms include
Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
indicates otherwise. Business Strategy We seek to offer Earth’s Biggest Selection
and to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, where
customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy
online. We have designed our Web sites to allow millions of new,
used and collectible products to be sold by us and by other
businesses and individuals worldwide. A product on our Web sites
may be listed for sale simultaneously by several different
sellers. For instance, a product may be offered by us, by a
participant in our Merchants@ program and by a business or
individual selling a new, used or collectible version of the
product through Amazon Marketplace, zShops or Auctions. We also
offer certain e-commerce services to other businesses through
our Merchant.com and Syndicated Stores programs. Lowering Prices We endeavor to offer our customers the lowest
possible prices. We strive to improve our operating efficiencies
and to leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass
along these savings to our customers in the form of lower
prices. We believe this strategy of lowering prices will, over
time, increase unit growth and lead to further efficiencies. 1 Table of Contents Amazon.com Retail We are the seller of record on our Web sites for
a broad range of new products, including electronics, computers,
kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and
photo items, software, computer and video games, cell phones,
tools and hardware and outdoor living items. We purchase these
products from vendors and fulfill them either through our
fulfillment centers or through outsourced fulfillment providers. Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace
    Programs Our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs
allow other businesses and individuals to offer their new, used
and collectible products for sale on our Web sites. Their
products are fully integrated on our Web sites and are purchased
by customers through a single checkout process. We are not the
seller of record in these transactions, but instead earn fixed
fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof. We also sometimes offer fulfillment-related
services under this program. Examples of our Merchants@ program
include our apparel store at www.amazon.com , which offers
more than 500 brands, as well as the Toysrus.com,
Babiesrus.com and Target stores at www.amazon.com . Amazon
Marketplace is available on www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk,
www.amazon.de and www.amazon.co.jp . In addition,
other businesses and individuals can auction products through
our Auction sites and offer products on individual specialty
stores through our zShops sites. Merchant.com Program Through our Merchant.com program we utilize our
e-commerce services, features and technologies to operate
another business’s Web site and sell its products under its
brand name and URL (an example is www.target.com ). We
also offer fulfillment-related services through our Merchant.com
program. We are not the seller of record, but instead earn fixed
fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof. Syndicated Stores Program Through our Syndicated Stores program, we utilize
our e-commerce services, features and technologies to sell our
products through another business’s Web site using another
business’s name and URL. Under these arrangements, we are
the seller of record and are responsible for fulfillment and
customer service. The other business earns a sales commission on
the products sold. Examples include www.cdnow.com,
www.virginmega.com, www.virginmega.co.jp, www.borders.com,
www.waldenbooks.com and www.waterstones.co.uk , among
others. Operating Segments Beginning in 2001, we organized our operations
into four principal segments: North America Books, Music and
DVD/ Video (“BMVD”); North America Electronics, Tools
and Kitchen (“ETK”); International; and Services. See
  

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — Note 15 — Segment
Information” for additional information regarding our
segments. BMVD Segment. This
segment includes retail sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca of books, music and DVD/video products and
magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes
commissions from sales of these products, new, used or
collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from
sales of these products by other businesses through our
Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering
these products through our Syndicated Stores program. Our BMVD segment had net sales of
$1.87 billion, $1.69 billion and $1.70 billion in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, we launched our
Canada-focused Web site at www.amazon.ca and launched
Syndicated Stores at www.cdnow.com and www.waldenbooks.com . In addition, we added in-store
pickup to 2 Table of Contents our www.borders.com Syndicated Store and
added over 50,000 magazine, newspaper and newsletter titles
to our Magazine store at www.amazon.com . ETK Segment. This
segment includes www.amazon.com retail sales of
electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, as
well as our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes
commissions from sales of these products, new, used or
collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from
sales of these products by other businesses through our
Merchants@ program, such as with Office Depot, and will include
revenues from stores offering these products, if any, through
our Syndicated Stores program. Our ETK segment had net sales of
$645 million, $547 million and $484 million in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. During 2002, we launched our
Office Depot store at www.amazon.com . International Segment. This segment includes all retail sales
of the following internationally-focused Web sites: www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr and www.amazon.co.jp . These international sites share a
common Amazon.com experience, but are localized in terms of
language, products, customer service and fulfillment. To the
extent available on these sites, this segment includes
commissions and other amounts earned from sales of products
through Amazon Marketplace and product revenues from stores
offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such as www.waterstones.co.uk and www.virginmega.co.jp ,
and amounts earned from sales of products by other businesses
through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales
from www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr and www.amazon.co.jp (including export sales from these sites
to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales
from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . Our
International segment had net sales of $1.17 billion,
$661 million and $381 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. In 2002, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de and www.amazon.co.jp each launched Amazon
Marketplace. In addition, the Syndicated Store at www.virginmega.co.jp was launched, and www.amazon.de launched a magazine and periodicals store. Services Segment. This segment consists of commissions, fees and other amounts
earned from our services business, including our Merchant.com
program (such as www.target.com ), and to the extent full
product categories are not also offered by us through our online
retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such as our apparel
store, the Toysrus.com and Babiesrus.com stores, and portions of
the Target store at www.amazon.com , as well as our
commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also
includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous
marketing and promotional agreements. The Services segment had net sales of
$246 million, $225 million and $198 million in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, we launched our
apparel store which now has more than 500 popular brands of
clothing, shoes and accessories offered by our Merchants@
program participants. In addition, we launched www.target.com under our Merchant.com program. Amazon.com Web Sites Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat
purchases by providing feature-rich content, a secure and
trusted transaction environment and easy-to-use functionality.
Our Web sites offer broad selection, low prices, availability,
convenience, discovery and fulfillment. Key features include
product reviews and other information, Web pages tailored to
individual customers’ preferences, including
recommendations and notifications, 1-Click® technology,
secure payment systems, browsing, searching and the ability to
view selected interior pages of over 250,000 books with our
“Look Inside the Book” feature. Our community of
online users creates feature-rich content, including product
reviews and online lists, such as wish lists, wedding registries
and baby registries of desired products and services that others
can reference for gift-giving purposes and Listmania lists with
accompanying commentary regarding favorite products. 3 Table of Contents Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy is designed to strengthen
and broaden the Amazon.com brand name, increase customer traffic
to our Web sites, encourage customers to shop in many product
categories, promote repeat purchases and develop incremental
product and service revenue opportunities. First and foremost,
our best marketing efforts are focused on improving the customer
experience, which drives word-of-mouth promotion and repeat
customer visits. We also deliver personalized Web pages and
services and employ a variety of media, business development
activities and promotional methods to achieve these goals. We
benefit from public relations activities and from time to time
we employ various means of online and traditional advertising,
including e-mail, radio, television and print media and direct
marketing. We also participate in cooperative advertising
arrangements with certain of our vendors. We direct customers to
our Web sites through our Associates program, which enables
associated Web sites to make our products available to their
audiences with fulfillment performed by us. Currently, over
900,000 Web sites have enrolled in our Associates program. In
addition, we offer an everyday free shipping option at www.amazon.com for certain orders that exceed a specific
amount, and offer similar options for our
internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses
do not include our free and reduced shipping offers, we view
such offers as an effective marketing tool. Customer Service We believe that our ability to establish and
maintain long-term relationships with our customers and to
encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, in part, on the
strength of our customer service operations, and we continually
seek to improve the Amazon.com customer service experience.
Customers can use the “your-account” website features
to track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery
dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery information and
payment options, combine orders, edit gift options and return
items. In addition to these and similar online self-service
features, users can contact customer service representatives
24 hours a day, seven days a week. We have automated
certain tools used by our customer service staff and have plans
for further enhancements. We currently have customer service
personnel working in six customer service centers located in
Tacoma, Washington; Grand Forks, North Dakota; Huntington, West
Virginia; Slough, the United Kingdom; Regensburg, Germany; and
Sapporo, Japan. In addition, we have customer-service cosourcing
arrangements with certain vendors in India, Northern Ireland and
the U.S. Fulfillment We currently lease and operate U.S. fulfillment
facilities in New Castle, Delaware; Coffeyville, Kansas;
Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Fernley, Nevada; and
Grand Forks, North Dakota. We also lease and operate three
European fulfillment centers that are located in Marston Gate,
the United Kingdom; Orleans, France; and Bad Hersfeld, Germany.
In Japan, Nippon Express, a leading courier company, provides
fulfillment services for orders from www. a mazon.co.jp under a cosourcing arrangement;
and in Canada, Assured Logistics, an affiliate of Canada Post,
provides outsourced fulfillment services for orders from www.amazon.ca . On an aggregate basis, these fulfillment
centers (including the facilities that are leased by Nippon
Express and Assured Logistics) comprise approximately
4.2 million square feet of warehouse space. In addition, we
currently lease six off-site facilities totaling approximately
1.1 million square feet of space, which support the storage
and fulfillment functions of our U.S. fulfillment centers.
Our fulfillment centers facilitate our ability to deliver
merchandise to customers on a reliable and timely basis. In
addition, we fulfill certain orders through outsourced
fulfillment providers. Seasonality Our business is generally affected by both
seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage (which generally
declines during summer months) and traditional retail
seasonality. Traditional retail sales for most of our products
(including books, music, DVDs, videos, toys and electronics,
among others) usually increase significantly in the fourth
calendar quarter of each year. Of particular note is the fourth
quarter seasonal 4 Table of Contents effect on our sales of toys (which are mainly
sold through our Merchants@ program relationship with
Toysrus.com) and electronics. Technology We have implemented numerous Web-site management,
search, customer interaction, recommendation,
transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems
using a combination of our own proprietary technologies and
commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current
strategy is to focus our development efforts on creating and
enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that is unique
to our business and to license or acquire commercially-developed
technology for other applications where available and
appropriate. We use a set of applications for accepting and
validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with
suppliers, managing and assigning inventory to customer orders
and ensuring proper shipment of products to customers. Our
transaction-processing systems handle millions of items, a
number of different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and
multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer to
choose whether to receive single or several shipments based on
availability and to track the progress of each order. These
applications also manage the process of accepting, authorizing
and charging customer credit cards. Competition The retail environment for our products is
generally intensely competitive. Our current or potential
competitors include: (1) physical-world retailers, catalog
retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers of our
products, many of which possess significant brand awareness,
sales volume and customer bases, and some of which currently
sell, or may sell, products or services through the Internet,
mail order or direct marketing; (2) other online e-commerce
sites; (3) a number of indirect competitors, including Web
portals and Web search engines that are involved in online
commerce, either directly or in collaboration with other
retailers; and (4) companies that provide e-commerce
services, including Web-site developers and third-party
fulfillment and customer-service providers. We believe that the
principal competitive factors in our market segments include
selection, price, availability, convenience, information,
discovery, brand recognition, personalized services,
accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed of
fulfillment, ease of use and ability to adapt to changing
conditions. For services we offer to business and individual
sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality of
our services and tools and speed of performance for our
services. As the market segments in which we operate continue to
grow, other companies may also enter into business combinations
or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets,
proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade-secret protection and confidentiality and/or
license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and
others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered a
number of domain names and been issued a number of trademarks,
service marks, patents and copyrights by U.S. and foreign
governmental authorities. We also have applied for the
registration of other trademarks, service marks, domain names
and copyrights in the U.S. and internationally, and we have
filed U.S. and international patent applications covering
certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the
past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of
our proprietary rights, such as trademarks, patents,
technologies or copyrighted materials, to third parties. Employees We employed approximately 7,500 full-time and
part-time employees at December 31, 2002. However,
employment levels fluctuate due to seasonal factors affecting
our business. We also employ independent contractors and
temporary personnel on a seasonal basis. None of our employees is 5 Table of Contents represented by a labor union and we consider our
employee relations to be good. Competition for qualified
personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for
software-development and other technical staff. We believe that
our future success will depend in part on our continued ability
to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website is www.amazon.com/ir . We make available on this website
under “Financial Documents and Annual Reports,” free
of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Additional Factors That May Affect Future
Results The following risk factors and other information
included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only
ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair
our business operations. If any of the following risks occur,
our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
flows could be materially adversely affected. We Have an Accumulated Deficit and May
    Incur Additional Losses We have incurred significant losses since we
began doing business. As of December 31, 2002, we had an
accumulated deficit of $3.0 billion and our
stockholders’ equity was a deficit of $1.4 billion. We
have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception,
and we may continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable
future. We Have Significant
    Indebtedness As of December 31, 2002, we had total
long-term indebtedness under our 10% Senior Discount Notes due
2008 (“Senior Discount Notes”), convertible notes,
capitalized-lease obligations and other asset financings of
$2.3 billion. We make annual or semi-annual interest
payments on the indebtedness under our two tranches of
convertible notes, which are due in 2009 and 2010, respectively.
Beginning in November 2003, we will begin to make semi-annual
interest payments on the indebtedness under our Senior Discount
Notes. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future.
Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain necessary
additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
debt service requirements or other purposes in the future; plan
for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and
competition; and react in the event of an economic downturn. There is no guarantee that we will be able to
meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate
sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or
if we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will
be in default. We Face Intense Competition The market segments in which we compete are
rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many
competitors in different industries, including both the retail
and e-commerce services industries. Many of our current and potential competitors
have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater
brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing
and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure
merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able
to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both
the retail and e-commerce services industries also may be able
to devote more resources to technology development and marketing
than us. Competition in the e-commerce channel may
intensify. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce service
industries may enter into business combinations or alliances
that strengthen their competitive 6 Table of Contents positions. As various Internet market segments
obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those
segments may expand into the market segments in which we
operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may
further intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The
nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates
competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it
inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats.
This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating
profits, or both. Our Business Could Suffer if We Are
    Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial
    Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business
    Relationships We may enter into commercial agreements,
strategic alliances and other business relationships with other
companies. We have entered into agreements to provide e-commerce
services to other businesses and we plan to enter into similar
agreements in the future. Under such agreements, we may perform
services such as: providing our technology services such as
search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses
and individuals to offer products or services through our Web
sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with or
without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These
arrangements are complex and initially require substantial
personnel and resource commitments by us, which may constrain
the number of such agreements we are able to enter into and may
affect our ability to deliver services under the relevant
agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain and develop
successfully the various components of such arrangements, which
may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management,
tax collection, payment processing and licensing of third party
software, hardware and content, these initiatives may not be
viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of
these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the
other company makes. Therefore, if the other business’s Web
site or product or services offering is not successful, we may
not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due under
the agreement or may not be able to maintain the agreement.
Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter
into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances
on favorable terms. As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise
terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements
on comparable terms, or at all. In the past, we amended several
of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to
be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial
agreements, or both. Some of our agreements involve high margin
services, such as marketing and promotional agreements, and as
such agreements expire they may be replaced, if at all, by
agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several
past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced
business failures and were unable to meet their obligations to
us. We may in the future enter into further amendments of these
agreements or encounter other parties that have difficulty
meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could
adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our present and future third-party
services agreements, other commercial agreements, joint
ventures, investments and business combinations create risks
such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including
    loss of management focus on existing businesses; • impairment of relationships with existing
    employees, customers and companies with which we have formed
    strategic alliances; • variability in revenue and income from entering
    into, amending or terminating such agreements or relationships; • difficulty assimilating the operations,
    technology and personnel of combined companies; • problems retaining key technical and managerial
    personnel; and • additional operating losses and expenses of
    acquired businesses. 7 Table of Contents Our Investments and the Consideration We
    Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us to a
    Number of Risks In the past, we have entered into commercial
agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances
where we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange
for our services we received cash, equity securities of these
companies, and/or additional benefits, such as Web site traffic.
The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these
agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other
company. In some cases, we have also made separate investments
in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for
equity securities of that company. We may in the future make
additional investments in companies with which we already have
commercial agreements or companies with which we enter into new
commercial agreements or similar arrangements. To the extent we
have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in
the value of such securities will affect our ultimate
realization of amounts we have received as compensation for
services. In the past, we amended several of our commercial
agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us,
shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may
in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial
agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount
of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the
timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts
has been changed to correspond with the terms of the amended
agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause
or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement
to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue
recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts
not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our
revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. Our investments in equity securities that are not
accounted for under the equity method are included in
“Marketable securities” and “Other equity
investments” on our balance sheets. We regularly review all
of our investments in public and private companies for
other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine
that the decline in fair value of an investment below our
accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying
value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount
of any such decline. In recent years, securities of companies in
the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced
significant difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters
that the fair values of other of these investments have
experienced an other-than-temporary decline. As of
December 31, 2002, our recorded basis in equity securities
was $19 million, including $4 million classified as
“Marketable securities” and $15 million
classified as “Other equity investments,” of which
less than $1 million was accounted for under the
equity-method. The Seasonality of Our Business Places
    Increased Strain on Our Operations We expect a disproportionate amount of our net
sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our fiscal
year. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts
and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect
our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we
may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or
write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A failure to
optimize inventory in our fulfillment network will harm our
shipping margins by requiring us to make partial shipments from
one or more locations. We may experience a decline in our
shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments
and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery, especially for the holiday season. If the other
businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment
services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of
forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space
and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too
many customers access our Web sites within a short period of
time due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience
system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or
prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce
the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our
products and services. In addition, we may be unable to
adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak
periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services to
our customers may be unable to meet the 8 Table of Contents seasonal demand. Finally, we, along with our
customer service outsourcers, may be unable to adequately staff
customer service centers. We generally have payment terms with our vendors
that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect
proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at
December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other
than as a result of cash flows provided by investing and
financing activities). This operating cycle results in a
corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our accounts payable
balance will decline during the first three months following
year-end, which will result in a decline in the amount of cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations
    in Our Operating Results and Rate of Growth Due to our limited operating history, our
evolving business model and the unpredictability of our
industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of
growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our
investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of
growth. Our expenses and investments are to a large extent
fixed. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough
if our net sales fall short of our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends
on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by us
or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic
and business conditions throughout the world. A softening of
demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a
weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in
decreased revenue or growth. Terrorist attacks and armed
hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could
adversely affect our revenue or growth. Such attacks and
security concerns could create delays in and increase the cost
of product shipments to and from us, which may decrease demand.
Revenue growth may not be sustainable and our company-wide
percentage growth rate may decrease in the future. Our net sales and operating results will also
fluctuate for many other reasons, including: • our ability to retain and increase sales to
    existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our
    customers’ demands; • our ability to expand our network of sellers, and
    to enter into, maintain, renew and amend on favorable terms our
    strategic alliances; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • our ability to acquire merchandise, manage
    inventory and fulfill orders; • the introduction by our competitors of Web sites,
    products or services; • changes in usage of the Internet and online
    services and consumer acceptance of the Internet and e-commerce; • timing and costs of upgrades and developments in
    our systems and infrastructure; • the effects of strategic alliances, acquisitions
    and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully
    integrate them into our business; • technical difficulties, system downtime or
    interruptions; • variations in the mix of products and services we
    sell; • variations in our level of merchandise and vendor
    returns; • disruptions in service by shipping carriers; • the extent to which we offer free shipping
    promotions; and 9 Table of Contents • an increase in the prices of fuel and gasoline,
    which are used in the transportation of packages, as well as an
    increase in the prices of other energy products, primarily
    natural gas and electricity, which are used in our operating
    facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations in Internet
usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect
our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer
months, and sales in almost all of our product groups,
particularly toys and electronics, usually increase
significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. We Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of our
internationally-focused Web sites are exposed to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the
applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency
into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates
vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated,
may differ materially from expectations. In addition, our 6.875% Convertible Subordinated
Notes due 2010 (“6.875% PEACS”) are denominated in
Euros, not U.S. Dollars. When we periodically remeasure the
principal of the 6.875% PEACS based on fluctuations in the Euro/
U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, we will record non-cash gains or
losses in “Other gains (losses), net” on our
statements of operations. Furthermore, we have invested some of
the proceeds from the 6.875% PEACS in Euro-denominated cash
equivalents and marketable securities. Accordingly, if the U.S.
Dollar strengthens compared to the Euro, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances, when translated, may be
materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Past and Planned Future Growth Will
    Place a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational and
    Financial Resources We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
operations and will endeavor to expand further to pursue growth
of our product and service offerings and customer base. Such
growth will continue to place a significant strain on our
management, operational and financial resources. We also need to
train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned
personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate
to support and effectively manage our future operations. We may
not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required
personnel, which may limit our growth. In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our
newer market segments from the first-to-market advantage that we
experienced in the online book channel. Our gross profits in our
newer business activities may be lower than in our older
business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no
experience in new product and service activities and our
customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. To the
extent we pursue strategic alliances to facilitate new product
or service activities, the alliances may not be successful. If
any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and
negatively affect revenue growth. The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel
    Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on the continued services and
performance of our senior management and other key personnel,
particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have “key
person” life insurance policies. The loss of any of our
executive officers or other key employees could harm our
business. System Interruption and the Lack of
    Integration and Redundancy in Our Systems May Affect Our
    Sales Customer access to our Web sites directly affects
the volume of goods we sell and the services we offer and thus
affects our net sales. We experience occasional system
interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us
from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to
third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the
attractiveness of our products and services. To prevent system 10 Table of Contents interruptions, we continually need to add
additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and
network infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on
our Web sites and increased sales volume. Our computer and communications systems and
operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power
loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts
of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or
electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions. Any of
these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of
critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and
fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it would make our
product offerings less attractive to our customers and our
service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do
have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our
systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery
planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In
addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance
limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If
any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be
expensive to remedy. We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to
    Expand into International Market Segments We plan, over time, to continue to expand our
reach in international market segments. We have relatively
little experience in purchasing, marketing and distributing
products or services for these market segments and may not
benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to
establish international facilities and operations, promote our
brand internationally and develop localized Web sites, stores
and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net
sales from international market segments may not offset the
expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations
and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a
sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations
are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad,
including, but not limited to, risks with respect to: • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • restrictive governmental actions (such as trade
    protection measures, including export duties and quotas and
    custom duties and tariffs); • import or export licensing requirements; • limitations on the repatriation of funds; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • nationalization; • longer receivable cycles; • consumer protection laws and restrictions on
    pricing or discounts; • lower level of adoption or use of the Internet
    and other technologies vital to our business and the lack of
    appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; • lower level of credit card usage and increased
    payment risk; • difficulty in developing and simultaneously
    managing a larger number of unique foreign operations as a
    result of distance, language and cultural differences; • laws and policies of the U.S. and other
    jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; • tax and other laws of the U.S. and other
    jurisdictions; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As the international e-commerce channel continues
to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may
have a substantial competitive advantage because of their
greater understanding of, and 11 Table of Contents focus on, the local customer, as well as their
more established local brand name recognition. In addition,
governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or
other online services in such areas as content, privacy, network
security, copyright, encryption, taxation or distribution. We
may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage
required personnel, which may limit our growth in international
market segments. We Face Significant Inventory
    Risk We are exposed to significant inventory risks as
a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in
product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to
our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately
predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking
products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly
between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In
addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is
particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A
failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network
will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split
shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades and
additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery. As a result of our Merchants@ program relationships
with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target and other companies,
these parties identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk
of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and
merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to
forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we would receive
reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and
reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or
inventory from certain sources, may require significant
lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be
returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory
levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we
may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or
during the relevant selling seasons. Our ability to receive inbound inventory
efficiently or ship completed orders to customers may be
negatively affected by a number of factors, including dependence
on a limited number of shipping companies, inclement weather,
fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of
war or terrorism or acts of God. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth
above may adversely affect our operating results. If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and
    Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be
    Harmed If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment
centers, it could significantly limit our ability to meet
customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict sales
volume, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way,
which may result in excess or insufficient inventory,
warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. In addition,
third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an
increasing portion of our customers’ orders, and we are
increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality and future
procurement of their services. Finally, under some of our
commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other
companies in our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the
complexity of tracking inventory in and operating our
fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such
inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies
to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected
costs and other harm to our business and reputation. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect
    Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing
    Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary
technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our
success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law,
trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to
protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service
mark, 12 Table of Contents copyright, patent and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our products and
services are made available online. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain
appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do
business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may
not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We
may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain
names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value
of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary
rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to
determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use.
The protection of our intellectual property may require the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.
Moreover, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect
our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights or
that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire
equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property
rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights
may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary
rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect
our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may
infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade
dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may
claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been
subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and
legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the
patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of
third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may
result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition
of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from
third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights,
but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us
or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize
on terms which are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other
rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in
providing e-commerce services to other businesses and
individuals under commercial agreements. We Have a Limited Operating History and Our
    Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a relatively short operating history and,
as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving and
unpredictable business model. The trading price of our common
stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common
stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and
factors, such as: • general economic conditions; • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the Internet and the
    e-commerce industry; • fluctuations in the stock market in general and
    market prices for Internet-related companies in particular; • quarterly variations in operating results; • new products, services, innovations and strategic
    developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations
    and investments by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by us or
    securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in Internet regulation; • changes in our capital structure, including
    issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; • additions or departures of key personnel; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs or
    closures of facilities; • changes in the valuation methodology of, or
    performance by, other e-commerce companies; and 13 Table of Contents • news and securities analyst reports and
    speculation relating to new and existing commercial agreements,
    general business or Internet trends or our existing or future
    products or services. Any of these events may cause our stock price to
rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing
opportunities. Future volatility in our stock price could force
us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant
larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt
our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our
existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001, we
offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock
options. This option exchange offer resulted in variable
accounting treatment for certain of our stock options. Variable
accounting treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based
compensation expense dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices
for our common stock. In late 2002, we implemented a restricted
stock unit plan, which will be our primary vehicle for employee
stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and
restricted stock units are measured at fair value on the date of
grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price
of the common stock, which will be recognized as compensation
expense ratably over the corresponding employee service term. Government Regulation of the Internet and
    E-commerce Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm our
    Business We are subject to general business regulations
and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing
the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and
regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other
online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation,
user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution,
electronic contracts, consumer protection, the provision of
online payment services, broadband residential Internet access
and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It
is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property
ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy
apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of
these issues may harm our business. In addition, many
jurisdictions currently regulate “auctions” and
“auctioneers” and may regulate online auction
services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer-to-consumer
fixed price online markets, like zShops and certain aspects of
Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for
our products and services and increase our cost of doing
business. We May Be Subject to Liability for Past
    Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease In accordance with current industry practice, we
do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to
shipments of most of our goods into states other than Washington
and North Dakota. Under some of our commercial agreements, the
other company is the seller of record of the applicable
merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most
states in accordance with that company’s instructions. We
may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar
tax collection obligations. We collect Value Added Tax, or VAT,
for products that are ordered on www.amazon.co.uk,
www.amazon.de and www.amazon.fr and delivered in
European Union member countries. We also collect Japanese
consumption tax for products that are ordered on www.amazon.co.jp and delivered in Japan. In addition,
Canadian consumption taxes are collected on sales of products
that are ordered on www.amazon.ca and delivered in
Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center
networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with
other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional
sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign
countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection
obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies which engage in
e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or
foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on
the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax
liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with
traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court
restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and
local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the
Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the
U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives
that could limit or supersede the 14 Table of Contents Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and
use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives
addressed the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and
resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be
required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than
Washington and North Dakota. The imposition by state and local
governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create
administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future
sales. Various countries are currently evaluating their
VAT positions on e-commerce transactions. Recently, for example,
the European Union (“EU”) enacted a directive
requiring that businesses in non-EU countries selling digital
products and services to EU resident consumers collect and remit
VAT in the country of the consumer’s residence. This
directive will become effective on July 1, 2003, will
result in additional VAT collection obligations and
administrative burdens and may decrease our future sales to
customers in the EU. Future VAT legislation or changes to our
business model may have similar impacts. We Source a Significant Portion of Our
    Inventory from a Few Vendors Although we continue to increase our direct
purchasing from manufacturers, we still source a significant
amount of inventory from relatively few vendors. During 2002, we
purchased over 10% of all inventory purchases from a single
vendor, Ingram Book Group. No other vendors account for over
10%. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with
most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of
merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of
credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling
merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to
acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and
efficient manner and on acceptable terms. We May Be Subject to Product Liability
    Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We
    Sell Some of our products, such as toys, tools,
hardware, computers, cell phones, and kitchen and houseware
products, may expose us to product liability claims relating to
personal injury, death or property damage caused by such
products, and may require us to take actions such as product
recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also may sell
products that may indirectly increase our exposure to product
liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we
cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for
liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to
be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all.
In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do
not indemnify us from product liability. We Could Be Liable for Breaches of Security
    on Our Web Site and Fraudulent Activities of Users of Our Amazon
    Payments Program A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the
secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that
are designed to protect consumer information and prevent
fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches,
failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect
our operating results. The law relating to the liability of providers of
online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we
are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the
provision of online payment services and could require changes
in the way this business is conducted. We guarantee payments
made through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for both
buyers and sellers, and we may be unable to prevent users of
Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment
may not be made to a seller or fraudulently collecting payments
when goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our liability risk
will increase if a larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon
Payments. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of
our guarantee of payments made through Amazon Payments or
otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the
functionality of Amazon Payments depends on certain third-party
vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or
unwilling to provide services, Amazon Payments will not be
viable (and our businesses that use Amazon Payments may not be
viable). 15 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Adapt Quickly Enough
    to Changing Customer Requirements and Industry
    Standards Technology in the e-commerce industry changes
rapidly. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing
customer requirements and preferences and industry standards.
Competitors often introduce new products and services with new
technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry
standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and
proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet as a Medium for Commerce Is
    Uncertain Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for
commerce is a recent phenomenon and is subject to a high level
of uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been
rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough
to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet
as a medium for commerce does not continue to grow or grows at a
slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than
expected and our business would be harmed. We Could Be Liable for Unlawful or
    Fraudulent Activities by Users of Our Merchants@ program,
    Merchant.com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops
    Services We may be unable to prevent users of our
Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon Marketplace,
Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, or
from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil or
criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our
users under U.S. laws and/or the laws and regulations of
other countries. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in
preventing our users from providing content that is either
illegal or which violates the proprietary rights of others, it
may result in liability to us. Any costs we incur as a result of
liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful
sale of goods, the fraudulent receipt of goods or the fraudulent
collection of payments could harm our business. In running our
Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon Marketplace,
Auctions and zShops services, we rely on sellers to make
accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and on
buyers to pay the agreed purchase price. We do not take
responsibility for delivery of payment or goods and, while we
can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to
fulfill their delivery obligations, we cannot require users to
make payments or deliver goods. We do not compensate users who
believe they have been defrauded by other users except through
our guarantee program. Under our guarantee program, fraudulent
activities by our users, such as the fraudulent receipt of goods
and the fraudulent collection of payments, may create liability
for us. 16 Table of Contents Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain
information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of
January 19, 2003: Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 39 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
    of the Board Richard L. Dalzell 45 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and
    Platform Software and Chief Information Officer Mark S. Peek 45 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini 42 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and
    Marketing Thomas J. Szkutak 42 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey A. Wilke 36 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and
    Customer Service L. Michelle Wilson 39 Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General
    Counsel and Secretary Jeffrey P. Bezos. Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of
the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief
Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as
President from founding until June 1999 and again from October
2000 to the present. Richard L. Dalzell. Mr. Dalzell has served as Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software,
and Chief Information Officer since November 2001. From October
2000 until November 2001, Mr. Dalzell was Senior Vice
President and Chief Information Officer and prior to that, from
joining Amazon.com in August 1997 until October 2000, he was
Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Mark S. Peek. Mr. Peek has served as Vice
President and Chief Accounting Officer since July 2002. From
November 2000 to July 2002, he served as Vice President,
Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April 2000 to November
2000, he served as Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting
Officer. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Peek was an audit
partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. Mr. Piacentini has served as
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since
November 2001. From joining Amazon.com in February 2000 until
November 2001, Mr. Piacentini was Senior Vice President and
General Manager, International. Prior to joining Amazon.com,
Mr. Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager,
Europe, of Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple
Computer’s operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Thomas J. Szkutak. Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 2002.
Previously, Mr. Szkutak held a variety of positions at
General Electric Co., including Chief Financial Officer of GE
Lighting from September 2001 to September 2002, Finance Director
of GE Plastics Europe from March 1999 to September 2001, and
Executive Vice President — Finance of GE Asset
Management (formerly known as GE Investments) from May 1997 to
March 1999. Jeffrey A. Wilke. Mr. Wilke has served as Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since
January 2002. From October 2000 until January 2002,
Mr. Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior
to that he had been Vice President and General Manager,
Operations, since joining Amazon.com in September 1999.
Previously, Mr. Wilke held a variety of positions at
AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager of
the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit 17 Table of Contents from March 1999 to September 1999 and General
Manager of the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from
August 1997 to February 1999. L. Michelle Wilson. Ms. Wilson has served as Senior
Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary
since March 2001. She served as Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary from July 1999 until March 2001. Ms. Wilson
joined Amazon.com in March 1999 as Associate General Counsel,
Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior to joining
Amazon.com, she was a partner in the law firm of Perkins Coie
LLP. Board of Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 39 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
    of the Board Tom A. Alberg 62 Managing Director of Madrona Venture Group L. John Doerr 51 General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
    Byers Mark S. Hansen 47 Chairman and CEO of Fleming Companies, Inc. Thomas O. Ryder 58 Chairman and CEO of Reader’s Digest
    Association, Inc. Patricia Q. Stonesifer 46 President and Co-Chair of the Bill & Melinda
    Gates Foundation 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered
    Securities None.   

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data,” and the information contained herein in 

Item 7
of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis 20 Table of Contents of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily
indicative of future results. As of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998(1) (in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 3,932,936 $ 3,122,433 $ 2,761,983 $ 1,639,839 $ 609,819 Gross profit 992,618 798,558 655,777 290,645 133,664 Income (loss) from operations 64,124 (412,257 ) (863,880 ) (605,755 ) (109,055 ) Interest income 23,687 29,103 40,821 45,451 14,053 Interest expense (142,925 ) (139,232 ) (130,921 ) (84,566 ) (26,639 ) Net loss (149,132 ) (567,277 ) (1,411,273 ) (719,968 ) (124,546 ) Basic and diluted net loss per share(2) $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) $ (4.02 ) $ (2.20 ) $ (0.42 ) Shares used in computation of basic and diluted
    net loss per share(2) 378,363 364,211 350,873 326,753 296,344 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 738,254 $ 540,282 $ 822,435 $ 133,309 $ 71,583 Marketable securities 562,715 456,303 278,087 572,879 301,862 Total assets 1,990,449 1,637,547 2,135,169 2,465,850 648,460 Long-term debt 2,277,305 2,156,133 2,127,464 1,466,338 348,140 Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) (1,352,814 ) (1,440,000 ) (967,251 ) 266,278 138,745 (1) Reflects restatement for a 1998 business
    acquisition accounted for under the pooling-of-interests method. (2) For further discussion of loss per share, see
      

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Note 1 —
    Description of Business and Accounting Policies” and
    “— Note 9 — Earnings (Loss) Per
    Share.” 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other
than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or
financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes,
expects, future, intends and similar expressions to identify
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect
management’s current expectations and are inherently
uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from
management’s expectations. The following discussion
includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations of
future pro forma profitability, net sales, cash flows from
operations and free cash flows, all of which are inherently
difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for
a variety of reasons, including, among others, the rate of
growth of the economy in general, the Internet and online
commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount that we invest
in new business opportunities and the timing of those
investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of
net sales derived from products as compared with services, risks
of inventory management, the degree to which we enter into,
maintain and develop relationships with other businesses,
fluctuations in the value of securities and non-cash payments we
receive in connection with such transactions, foreign exchange
risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion and risks
of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and
uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that
could cause our actual results to differ significantly from
management’s expectations, are described in greater detail
in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Note 1 —
Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although
we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are
reasonable, they are based upon information presently available.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates
under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Significant Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for
sale, are valued at the lower of cost or market value, which
requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available
information, about the likely method of disposition (whether
through sales to individual customers, returns to product
vendors or liquidations), and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, which is
applied consistently from period to period, we record a
valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our
inventories to lower of cost or market value. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize revenue from product sales
or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition
criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the
selling price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. We evaluate the criteria outlined in Emerging
Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 99-19,
“Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an
Agent,” in determining whether it is appropriate to record
the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net
amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary
obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have
latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have
several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded
gross. If we are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are
determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule,
or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts
as commissions earned. Product sales, net of promotional discounts,
rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products
are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to
customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides
for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier (commonly referred to as “F.O.B. Shipping
Point”). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue by
our best estimate of expected product returns) are estimated
using historical experience. 22 Table of Contents We periodically provide incentive offers to our
customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage
discounts off current purchases (“current discount
offers”), offers for future discounts subject to a minimum
current purchase (“inducement offers”) and other
similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our
customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of
the related transaction and are presented as a net amount in
“Net sales.” Inducement offers, when accepted by our
customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on
estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using
our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received through our Amazon
Marketplace and Merchants@ programs and amounts earned through
our Merchant.com program are recorded as net amounts since we
are acting as an agent. Amounts earned are recognized as net
sales when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our
collectibility is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for
estimated refunds on such commissions using historical
experience. We earn revenues from services primarily by
entering into business-to-business commercial agreements,
including providing our technology services such as search,
browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and
individuals to offer products or services through our Web sites;
and powering third-party Web sites, either with or without
providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial
agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional
agreements. As compensation for the services we provide under
these agreements, we generally receive cash. In the past, we
have accepted as compensation under these arrangements equity
securities, or a combination of equity securities and cash.
Generally, the fair value of the equity consideration received
is measured when the agreement is executed, but to the extent
that the equity consideration is subject to forfeiture or
vesting provisions and no significant performance commitment
exists upon execution of the agreement, the fair value of the
equity consideration and corresponding revenue is determined as
of the date that the forfeiture provision lapses or as the
vesting provision lapses. Subsequent to initial measurement of
fair value, appreciation or decline in the fair value of such
securities will affect our ultimate realization of equity
securities received as compensation; however, any such change
does not affect the amount of revenue to be recognized over the
term of the agreement. We generally recognize revenue from these
marketing and promotional services (including revenues
associated with non-refundable advance payments) on a
straight-line basis over the period during which we perform
services under these agreements, commencing at the launch date
of the service. If we receive non-refundable advance payments,
such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until
service commences. Included in Services segment revenues are
equity-based service revenues of $13 million,
$27 million and $79 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. We have in the past, and may in the future, amend
our agreements with certain of the companies with which we have
commercial agreements to modify future cash proceeds to be
received by us, modify the service term of our commercial
agreements, or both. Although these amendments generally do not
affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us
(if any), the timing of future revenue recognition changes to
correspond with the terms of amended agreements. These
amendments or future amendments will affect the timing and
amount of revenues recognized in connection with these
commercial agreements. To the extent we believe any such
amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received
under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we
limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any
future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future
amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated
into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the
agreement. Fair Value of Equity Securities Received as
    Compensation Under Commercial Agreements For equity securities of public companies
received as compensation under commercial agreements, we
generally determine fair value based on the quoted market price
at the time we enter into the underlying commercial agreement
and adjust such market price appropriately if significant
restrictions on marketability exist. Because an observable
market price does not exist for equity securities of private
companies, our estimates of fair value of such securities are
more subjective than for the securities of 23 Table of Contents public companies. For significant transactions
involving equity securities in private companies, we obtain and
consider independent, third-party valuations where appropriate.
Such valuations use a variety of methodologies to estimate fair
value, including comparing the security with securities of
publicly traded companies in similar lines of business, applying
price multiples to estimated future operating results for the
private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows
for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise
fair value by a factor that is intended to account for
restrictions on control and marketability where appropriate.
Using these valuations and other information available to us,
such as our knowledge of the industry and the company itself, we
determine the estimated fair value of the securities received. Accounting for Goodwill and Certain Other
    Intangibles Effective July 1, 2001, we adopted certain
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 141, “Business
Combinations,” and effective January 1, 2002, we
adopted the full provisions of SFAS No. 141 and SFAS
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
SFAS No. 141 requires business combinations initiated after
June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method
of accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible
assets apart from goodwill. We evaluated our goodwill and
intangibles acquired prior to June 30, 2001 using the
criteria of SFAS No. 141, which resulted in
$25 million of other intangibles (comprised entirely of
assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill at
January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 requires that purchased
goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles no longer be
amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least
annually. We evaluated our intangible assets and determined that
all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS No. 142 prescribes a two-phase process
for impairment testing of goodwill. The first phase screens for
impairment, while the second phase (if necessary) measures the
impairment. We completed our first phase impairment analysis and
found no instances of impairment of our recorded goodwill;
accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary during
2002. No subsequent indicators of impairment have been noted. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include
estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition of
lease obligations. Key variables in determining such estimates
include anticipated commencement timing of sublease rentals,
estimates of sublease rental payment amounts and tenant
improvement costs and estimates for brokerage and other related
costs. We periodically evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our
estimates based on currently-available information. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales include the selling price of consumer
products sold by us, less promotional discounts, rebates and
sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed to our
customers; commissions and other amounts earned from sales of
new and used products on Amazon Marketplace; amounts earned
(fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof) for sales of retail products through our
Merchants@ program, such as Toysrus.com and Target stores at www.amazon.com ; the selling price of consumer products
sold by us through our Syndicated Stores program, such as www.borders.com ; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales
commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination
thereof) in connection with our Merchant.com program, such as www.target.com ; amounts earned from third parties who
utilize our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing
and promotional agreements. Net sales were $3.93 billion,
$3.12 billion and $2.76 billion for 2002, 2001 and
2000, respectively, representing increases of 26% and 13% for
2002 and 2001, respectively. The increases in 2002 net sales
were primarily attributable to our International segment and our
BMVD segment, which increased $508 million and
$185 million in 2002, respectively. The increases in 2001
net sales were primarily 24 Table of Contents attributable to our International segment and our
ETK segment, which increased $280 million and
$63 million, respectively. During 2002, revenues improved
$47 million in comparison to 2001 due to changes in foreign
exchange rates (specifically the weakening of the
U.S. Dollar in comparison to the Euro and the British
Pound). Net sales for our BMVD segment were
$1.87 billion, $1.69 billion and $1.70 billion
for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing an increase
of 11% for 2002 in comparison with a decline of 1% for 2001.
This segment includes retail sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca of books, music and DVD/ video
products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment
also includes commissions from Amazon Marketplace sales of these
products, new, used or collectible, amounts earned from sales of
these products by other businesses through our Merchants@
program and product revenues from stores offering these products
through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement in growth
rates for our BMVD segment in 2002 in comparison with 2001
reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing
efforts to reduce prices for customers, including increases in
customer discounts on books and the introduction of everyday
free shipping at www.amazon.com for certain orders. Also
contributing to the 2002 increase in growth rates for BMVD are
increases in unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our ETK segment were
$645 million, $547 million and $484 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 18%
and 13% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. This segment includes www.amazon.com retail sales of electronics, home
improvement and home and garden products, as well as our
mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions
from sales of these products, new, used or collectible, through
Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales of these
products by other businesses through our Merchants@ program,
such as with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores
offering these products, if any, through our Syndicated Stores
program. The improvement in growth rates for our ETK segment in
2002 in comparison with 2001 reflects increased unit sales
resulting from our continuing efforts to reduce prices for
customers, including increases in customer discounts through
price changes and rebate programs and the introduction of
everyday free shipping at www.amazon.com for certain
orders. Also contributing to the 2002 increase in growth rates
for ETK are increases in unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our International segment were
$1.17 billion, $661 million and $381 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 77%
and 74% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. We anticipate that as
the revenue base of our International segment increases, the
percentage growth rates will likely decline over time. During
2002, revenues improved $47 million in comparison to 2001
due to changes in foreign exchange rates (specifically the
weakening of the U.S. Dollar in comparison to the Euro and
the British Pound). This segment includes all retail sales of
the following internationally-focused Web sites: www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr and www.amazon.co.jp . These international sites share a
common Amazon.com experience, but are localized in terms of
language, products, customer service and fulfillment. To the
extent available on these sites, this segment includes
commissions and other amounts earned from sales of products
through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering
products through our Syndicated Stores program, such as www.waterstones.co.uk and www.virginmega.co.jp ,
and amounts earned from sales of products by other businesses
through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment
includes export sales from www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de,
www.amazon.fr and www.amazon.co.jp (including export
sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but
excludes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . The increase in net sales from our
International segment results from, in each of the four
internationally-focused Web sites, an increase in unit sales (in
part due to the introduction of Amazon Marketplace on www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de and www.amazon.co.jp ), and our continuing efforts to reduce
prices to customers through increases in customer discounts and
free and reduced-rate shipping offers. The future growth of our
International segment may fluctuate significantly with changes
in foreign exchange rates. See 

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.” 35 Table of Contents Full year and corresponding quarterly pro forma
results of operations, and certain cash flow information for
2002, 2001 and 2000, were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2002 Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income from operations $ 180,102 $ 101,958 $ 27,492 $ 25,994 $ 24,658 Pro forma net income (loss) $ 66,487 $ 75,382 $ 353 $ (4,409 ) $ (4,839 ) Pro forma income from operations as a percentage
    of net sales 5 % 7 % 3 % 3 % 3 % Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ 0.18 $ 0.20 $ 0.00 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ 0.17 $ 0.19 $ 0.00 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Shares used in computation of pro forma basic
    income (loss) per share 378,363 383,702 379,650 376,937 373,031 Shares used in computation of pro forma diluted
    income (loss) per share 399,656 407,056 398,361 376,937 373,031 Net cash provided by (used in) operating
    activities $ 174,291 $ 372,579 $ 38,108 $ 4,637 $ (241,033 ) Year Ended December 31, 2001 Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income (loss) from operations $ (45,002 ) $ 58,680 $ (27,072 ) $ (28,009 ) $ (48,601 ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ (157,031 ) $ 34,785 $ (58,005 ) $ (57,528 ) $ (76,283 ) Pro forma income (loss) from operations as a
    percentage of net sales (1 )% 5 % (4 )% (4 )% (7 )% Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ (0.43 ) $ 0.09 $ (0.16 ) $ (0.16 ) $ (0.21 ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ (0.43 ) $ 0.09 $ (0.16 ) $ (0.16 ) $ (0.21 ) Shares used in computation of pro forma basic
    income (loss) per share 364,211 371,420 368,052 359,752 357,424 Shares used in computation of pro forma diluted
    income (loss) per share 364,211 384,045 368,052 359,752 357,424 Net cash provided by (used in) operating
    activities $ (119,782 ) $ 349,120 $ (64,403 ) $ 2,485 $ (406,984 ) Year Ended December 31, 2000 Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma loss from operations $ (317,000 ) $ (59,946 ) $ (68,439 ) $ (89,349 ) $ (99,266 ) Pro forma net loss $ (417,158 ) $ (90,426 ) $ (89,493 ) $ (115,704 ) $ (121,535 ) Pro forma loss from operations as a percentage of
    net sales (11 )% (6 )% (11 )% (15 )% (17 )% Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share $ (1.19 ) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.33 ) $ (0.35 ) Shares used in computation of pro forma basic and
    diluted loss per share 350,873 355,681 353,954 349,886 343,884 Net cash provided by (used in) operating
    activities $ (130,442 ) $ 247,653 $ (3,688 ) $ (54,029 ) $ (320,378 ) 36 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of our pro
forma results for 2002, 2001 and 2000. Quarterly reconciliations
are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Year Ended December 31, 2000 Pro Forma Pro Forma Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma (in (in (in thousands) thousands) thousands) Net sales $ 3,932,936 $ — $ 3,932,936 $ 3,122,433 $ — $ 3,122,433 $ 2,761,983 $ — $ 2,761,983 Cost of sales 2,940,318 — 2,940,318 2,323,875 — 2,323,875 2,106,206 — 2,106,206 Gross profit 992,618 — 992,618 798,558 — 798,558 655,777 — 655,777 Operating expenses: Fulfillment 392,467 — 392,467 374,250 — 374,250 414,509 — 414,509 Marketing 125,383 — 125,383 138,283 — 138,283 179,980 — 179,980 Technology and content 215,617 — 215,617 241,165 — 241,165 269,326 — 269,326 General and administrative 79,049 — 79,049 89,862 — 89,862 108,962 — 108,962 Stock-based compensation 68,927 (68,927 ) — 4,637 (4,637 ) — 24,797 (24,797 ) — Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles 5,478 (5,478 ) — 181,033 (181,033 ) — 321,772 (321,772 ) — Restructuring- related and other 41,573 (41,573 ) — 181,585 (181,585 ) — 200,311 (200,311 ) — Total operating expenses 928,494 (115,978 ) 812,516 1,210,815 (367,255 ) 843,560 1,519,657 (546,880 ) 972,777 Income (loss) from operations 64,124 115,978 180,102 (412,257 ) 367,255 (45,002 ) (863,880 ) 546,880 (317,000 ) Interest income 23,687 — 23,687 29,103 — 29,103 40,821 — 40,821 Interest expense (142,925 ) — (142,925 ) (139,232 ) — (139,232 ) (130,921 ) — (130,921 ) Other income (expense), net 5,623 — 5,623 (1,900 ) — (1,900 ) (10,058 ) — (10,058 ) Other gains (losses), net (96,273 ) 96,273 — (2,141 ) 2,141 — (142,639 ) 142,639 — Total non- operating expenses, net (209,888 ) 96,273 (113,615 ) (114,170 ) 2,141 (112,029 ) (242,797 ) 142,639 (100,158 ) Income (loss) before equity in losses of
    equity- method investees (145,764 ) 212,251 66,487 (526,427 ) 369,396 (157,031 ) (1,106,677 ) 689,519 (417,158 ) Equity in losses of equity-method investees, net (4,169 ) 4,169 — (30,327 ) 30,327 — (304,596 ) 304,596 — Income (loss) before change in accounting
    principle (149,933 ) 216,420 66,487 (556,754 ) 399,723 (157,031 ) (1,411,273 ) 994,115 (417,158 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle 801 (801 ) — (10,523 ) 10,523 — — — — Net income (loss) $ (149,132 ) $ 215,619 $ 66,487 $ (567,277 ) $ 410,246 $ (157,031 ) $ (1,411,273 ) $ 994,115 $ (417,158 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating
    activities $ 174,291 $ 174,291 $ (119,782 ) $ (119,782 ) $ (130,442 ) $ (130,442 ) Basic income (loss) per share: Prior to cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle $ (0.40 ) $ 0.58 $ 0.18 $ (1.53 ) $ 1.10 $ (0.43 ) $ (4.02 ) $ 2.83 $ (1.19 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle 0.01 (0.01 ) — (0.03 ) 0.03 — — — — $ (0.39 ) $ 0.57 $ 0.18 $ (1.56 ) $ 1.13 $ (0.43 ) $ (4.02 ) $ 2.83 $ (1.19 ) Diluted income (loss) per share: Prior to cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle $ (0.40 ) $ 0.57 $ 0.17 $ (1.53 ) $ 1.10 $ (0.43 ) $ (4.02 ) $ 2.83 $ (1.19 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle 0.01 (0.01 ) — (0.03 ) 0.03 — — — — $ (0.39 ) $ 0.56 $ 0.17 $ (1.56 ) $ 1.13 $ (0.43 ) $ (4.02 ) $ 2.83 $ (1.19 ) Shares used in computation of income
    (loss) per share: Basic 378,363 378,363 364,211 364,211 350,873 350,873 Diluted 378,363 399,656 364,211 364,211 350,873 350,873 (1) In accordance with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States. 37 Table of Contents First quarter of 2003 pro forma net profit is
expected to be between $5 million and $20 million, or
between $0.01 per share and $0.05 per share. Pro forma net
profit for full year 2003 is expected to be over
$115 million, or over $0.27 per share. However, any such
projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See


 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
    About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of
interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes
in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and
qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and
in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest
Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in
interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and
our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable
fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale
and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance
sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher
short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and money
market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair
market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates,
and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell
securities that have declined in market value due to changes in
interest rates. 40 Table of Contents The following table provides information about
our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities,
including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the
related weighted average interest rates at December 31,
2002. Amounts were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total 2002 Commercial paper and short- term obligations $ 437,363 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 437,363 $ 437,363 Weighted average interest rate 2.10 % — — — — — 2.10 % Certificates of deposit 22,326 — — — — — 22,326 22,326 Weighted average interest rate 3.16 % — — — — — 3.16 % Corporate notes and bonds 2,745 26,618 13,493 — — — 42,856 42,941 Weighted average interest rate 2.06 % 1.75 % 2.24 % — — — 1.93 % Asset-backed and agency securities 20,572 175,330 115,605 — — 4,953 316,460 316,715 Weighted average interest rate 2.09 % 1.48 % 2.13 % — — 6.71 % 1.89 % Treasury notes and bonds 9,320 105,385 37,831 22,142 — — 174,678 174,726 Weighted average interest rate 1.42 % 1.48 % 1.91 % 2.10 % — — 1.62 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income
    securities $ 492,326 $ 307,333 $ 166,929 $ 22,142 $ — $ 4,953 $ 993,683 $ 994,071 The following table provides information about
our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities,
including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the
related weighted average interest rates at December 31,
2001. Amounts are as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total 2001 Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ 419,098 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 419,098 $ 418,936 Weighted average interest rate 2.33 % — — — — — 2.33 % Certificates of deposit 18,159 — — — — — 18,159 18,159 Weighted average interest rate 3.48 % — — — — — 3.48 % Corporate notes and bonds — 26,520 7,800 — — — 34,320 37,602 Weighted average interest rate — 2.98 % 4.00 % — — — 3.21 % Asset-backed and agency securities 6,209 73,070 149,765 — — 1,767 230,811 232,821 Weighted average interest rate 2.55 % 3.42 % 3.63 % — — 7.64 % 3.56 % 41 Table of Contents Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total 2001 Treasury notes and bonds 11,900 72,100 36,700 — — — 120,700 125,947 Weighted average interest rate 2.05 % 2.44 % 3.42 % — — — 2.70 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed- income securities $ 455,366 $ 171,690 $ 194,265 $ — $ — $ 1,767 $ 823,088 $ 833,465 At December 31, 2002, we have long-term debt
of $2.28 billion primarily associated with our 6.875%
PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount
Notes, which are due in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our
payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are
fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised of
interest payments, principal payments, or a combination thereof.
The market value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with
movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining
rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates
of interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of
the 6.875% PEACS was $531 million and $310 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, the fair value of
the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $925 million
and $625 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively, and the fair value of the outstanding Senior
Discount Notes was $263 million and $194 million as of
December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively. Foreign Exchange Risk During 2002, net sales from five of our
internationally-focused Web sites ( www.amazon.co.uk,
www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.co.jp and www.amazon.ca ) accounted for 30% of our consolidated
revenues. Net sales generated from these Web sites, as well as
most of the related expenses incurred, are denominated in the
functional currencies of the corresponding Web sites. The
functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or
support www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr,
www.amazon.co.jp and www.amazon.ca is the same as the
local currency of the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and
Canada, respectively. Results of operations from our foreign
subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our
internationally-focused Web sites are exposed to foreign
exchange fluctuations as the financial results of these
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at average
rates prevailing during the year upon consolidation. As exchange
rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when
translated, may differ materially from expectations. The effect
of foreign exchange fluctuations for 2002 on our
internationally-focused Web sites increased net sales by
$47 million and increased results from operations by
$4 million. At December 31, 2002, we were also exposed
to foreign exchange risk related to Euro-denominated cash
equivalents and marketable securities (“Euro
Investments”), as well as our 6.875% PEACS. As of
December 31, 2002 the Euro Investments, classified as
available-for-sale, had a balance of 60 million Euros ($63
million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31,
2002). Our 6.875% PEACS have an outstanding principal balance of
690 million Euros ($725 million, based on the exchange
rate as of December 31, 2002), of which 75 million
Euros principal is hedged. Based on the outstanding Euro
Investment balance at December 31, 2002, an assumed 5%, 10%
and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the
Euro would result in a corresponding decline in the total fair
value of such investments of approximately $3 million, $6
million and $13 million, respectively. Based on the
outstanding (unhedged) 6.875% PEACS’ principal balance of
615 million Euros at December 31, 2002, an assumed 5%,
10% and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the
Euro would result in corresponding currency losses of
approximately $32 million, $65 million and
$129 million, respectively, recorded to “Other gains
(losses), net.” We hedge the foreign exchange risk on our 6.875%
PEACS’ principal of 75 million Euros and a portion of
the interest payments using a cross-currency swap agreement.
Under the swap agreement, we 42 Table of Contents agreed to pay at inception and receive upon
maturity 75 million Euros in exchange for receiving at
inception and paying at maturity $67 million. In addition,
we agreed to receive in February of each year 27 million
Euros corresponding with interest payments on 390 million
Euros of the 6.875% PEACS and, simultaneously, to pay
$32 million. This agreement is cancelable, in whole or in
part, at our option at no cost on or after February 20,
2003 if our common stock price (converted into Euros) is greater
than or equal to 84.883 Euros, the minimum conversion price
of the 6.875% PEACS. We account for the swap agreement as a cash
flow hedge of the risk of exchange rate fluctuations on the debt
principal and interest. Gains and losses on the swap agreement
are initially recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss)” on our balance sheets and recognized in
“Other gains (losses), net” on our statements of
operations upon the recognition of the corresponding currency
losses and gains on the remeasurement of the 6.875% PEACS. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2002, our recorded basis
in equity securities was $19 million, including
$4 million classified as “Marketable securities”
and $15 million classified as “Other equity
investments.” We invest in the stock and/or warrants of
both private and public companies, including companies with
which we have formed commercial relationships, primarily for
strategic purposes. At December 31, 2002, we held
investments in publicly-traded and privately held companies with
a recorded basis of $11 million and $8 million,
respectively. We regularly review the carrying value of our
investments and identify and record losses when events and
circumstances indicate that such declines in the fair value of
such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary.
During 2002, we recorded impairment losses totaling
$8 million to write-down several of our equity securities
to fair value. The fair values of our investments are subject to
significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market
and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair
value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at
December 31, 2002 of $42 million (recorded basis of
$11 million), an assumed 15%, 30% and 50% adverse change to
market prices of these securities would result in a
corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately
$6 million, $13 million and $21 million,
respectively. 43 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent
    Auditors 45 Consolidated Balance Sheets 46 Consolidated Statements of Operations 47 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 48 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity (Deficit) 49 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 50 44 Table of Contents REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2002
and 2001, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity (deficit) and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed at


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 17   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 31  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, an annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and access to hundreds of thousands of books to borrow and read for free on a Kindle device. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the North America and International fulfillment centers and warehouses that we operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 15 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 74,452 $ 61,093 $ 48,077 $ 34,204 $ 24,509 Income from operations $ 745 $ 676 $ 862 $ 1,406 $ 1,129 Net income (loss) $ 274 $ (39 ) $ 631 $ 1,152 $ 902 Basic earnings per share (1) $ 0.60 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.39 $ 2.58 $ 2.08 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.59 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.37 $ 2.53 $ 2.04 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 457 453 453 447 433 Diluted 465 453 461 456 442 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 5,475 $ 4,180 $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (3,444 ) (3,785 ) (1,811 ) (979 ) (373 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 2,031 $ 395 $ 2,092 $ 2,516 $ 2,920 December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 40,159 $ 32,555 $ 25,278 $ 18,797 $ 13,813 Total long-term obligations $ 7,433 $ 5,361 $ 2,625 $ 1,561 $ 1,192 ___________________ (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 16 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. (4) Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing twelve month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter ends. (5) Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to current quarter cost of sales, multiplied by the number of days in the current quarter. 18 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category.  These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2013 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $79 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2013 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate goodwill impairment. Changes in our estimated future cash flows and asset fair values may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2013 closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate stock-based compensation. Changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $32 million impact on our 2013 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 was 27%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense adjustment is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. 19 Table of Contents Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., many countries in the European Union, and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. In addition, we are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 5,475 $ 4,180 $ 3,903 Investing activities (4,276 ) (3,595 ) (1,930 ) Financing activities (539 ) 2,259 (482 ) Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $2.0 billion for 2013 , compared to $395 million and $2.1 billion for 2012 and 2011 . See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The increase in free cash flow for 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to higher operating cash flows and decreased capital expenditures. The decrease in free cash flow for 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was due to increased capital expenditures, including a $1.4 billion purchase of property in December 2012, partially offset by higher operating cash flows. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our net income (loss). Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $12.4 billion , $11.4 billion , and $9.6 billion as of December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $5.6 billion , $5.1 billion, and $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Yuan. Cash provided by operating activities was $5.5 billion , $4.2 billion , and $3.9 billion in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by changes in working capital.  The increase in operating cash flow in 2012, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, additions to unearned revenue, and changes in working capital, partially offset by increased tax benefits on excess stock-based compensation deductions. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(4.3) billion , $(3.6) billion , and $(1.9) billion in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $3.4 billion , $3.8 billion , and $1.8 billion during 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . In December 2012 , we acquired 11 buildings comprising 1.8 million square feet of our previously leased corporate office space and three city blocks in Seattle, Washington for $1.4 billion. Excluding this acquisition, increases in capital expenditures primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, during all three periods. We expect this trend to continue over time. Capital expenditures included $493 million, $381 million, and $256 million for internal-use software and website development during 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $312 million , $745 million , and $705 million . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(539) million , $2.3 billion , and $(482) million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from common stock repurchases, payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt were $1.0 21 Table of Contents billion , $588 million , and $444 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $1.9 billion , $802 million , and $753 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , with the increases primarily reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS. We repurchased 5.3 million shares of common stock for $960 million in 2012 and 1.5 million shares of common stock for $277 million in 2011 under the $2.0 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in January 2010. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $394 million , $3.4 billion , and $177 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . During 2012, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $3.0 billion of senior nonconvertible unsecured debt in three tranches: $750 million of 0.65% notes due in 2015; $1.0 billion of 1.20% notes due in 2017; and $1.3 billion of 2.50% notes due in 2022. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $78 million , $429 million , and $62 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . In 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 we recorded net tax provisions of $161 million , $428 million , and $291 million . Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings. As of December 31, 2013 , cash held by foreign subsidiaries was $4.6 billion, which include undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. of $2.5 billion . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property were a result of U.S. legislation that expired in December 2013. As such, cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $169 million , $112 million , and $33 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . As of December 31, 2013 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $275 million and we had approximately $295 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. The U.S. federal research and development credit expired in December 2013. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate lease agreements. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $301 million and $99 million . To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some states may restrict our use of those funds. This restriction would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2013 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 9 , 9, and 10 for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Segment Information” for net sales attributed to foreign countries. 23 Table of Contents Supplemental Information Supplemental information about outbound shipping results is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Outbound Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2)(3) $ 3,097 $ 2,280 $ 1,552 Shipping costs (6,635 ) (5,134 ) (3,989 ) Net shipping cost $ (3,538 ) $ (2,854 ) $ (2,437 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 36 % 47 % 30 % Shipping costs 29 29 55 Net shipping cost 24 17 76 Percent of Net Sales: Shipping revenue 4.1 % 3.7 % 3.2 % Shipping costs (8.9 ) (8.4 ) (8.3 ) Net shipping cost (4.8 )% (4.7 )% (5.1 )% ___________________ (1) Excludes amounts earned on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes a portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. (3) Shipping revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 include amounts earned from Fulfillment by Amazon programs related to shipping services. We expect our net cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing placement of fulfillment centers, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. 24 Table of Contents Net sales by similar products and services were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net Sales: North America Media $ 10,809 $ 9,189 $ 7,959 Electronics and other general merchandise 29,985 23,273 17,315 Other (1) 3,723 2,351 1,431 Total North America $ 44,517 $ 34,813 $ 26,705 International Media $ 10,907 $ 10,753 $ 9,820 Electronics and other general merchandise 18,817 15,355 11,397 Other (1) 211 172 155 Total International $ 29,935 $ 26,280 $ 21,372 Consolidated Media $ 21,716 $ 19,942 $ 17,779 Electronics and other general merchandise 48,802 38,628 28,712 Other (1) 3,934 2,523 1,586 Total consolidated $ 74,452 $ 61,093 $ 48,077 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 18 % 15 % 16 % Electronics and other general merchandise 29 34 57 Other 58 64 73 Total North America 28 30 43 International Media 1 % 9 % 23 % Electronics and other general merchandise 23 35 55 Other 22 11 24 Total International 14 23 38 Consolidated Media 9 % 12 % 19 % Electronics and other general merchandise 26 35 56 Other 56 59 66 Total consolidated 22 27 41 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect of exchange rates International Media 7 % 12 % 16 % Electronics and other general merchandise 27 40 47 Other 26 15 18 Total International 19 27 31 Consolidated Media 12 % 14 % 16 % Electronics and other general merchandise 28 36 53 Other 56 59 66 Total consolidated 24 29 37 Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media 29 % 33 % 37 % Electronics and other general merchandise 66 63 60 Other 5 4 3 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % ___________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as AWS sales, which are included in the North America segment, and advertising services and our co-branded credit card agreements, which are included in both segments. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 Year Ended December 31, 2012 Year Ended December 31, 2011 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 54,181 $ — $ 54,181 $ 45,971 $ — $ 45,971 $ 37,288 $ — $ 37,288 Fulfillment 8,585 (294 ) 8,291 6,419 (212 ) 6,207 4,576 (133 ) 4,443 Marketing 3,133 (88 ) 3,045 2,408 (61 ) 2,347 1,630 (39 ) 1,591 Technology and content 6,565 (603 ) 5,962 4,564 (434 ) 4,130 2,909 (292 ) 2,617 General and administrative 1,129 (149 ) 980 896 (126 ) 770 658 (93 ) 565 Other operating expense (income), net 114 — 114 159 — 159 154 — 154 Total operating expenses $ 73,707 $ (1,134 ) $ 72,573 $ 60,417 $ (833 ) $ 59,584 $ 47,215 $ (557 ) $ 46,658 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 34 % 34 % 40 % 40 % 58 % 58 % Marketing 30 30 48 47 58 59 Technology and content 44 44 57 58 68 73 General and administrative 26 27 36 36 40 46 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 11.5 % 11.1 % 10.5 % 10.2 % 9.5 % 9.2 % Marketing 4.2 4.1 3.9 3.8 3.4 3.3 Technology and content 8.8 8.0 7.5 6.8 6.1 5.4 General and administrative 1.5 1.3 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.2 Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” and 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, including Prime Instant Video, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product, digital content, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, as well as from expansion of digital offerings. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods presented were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Gross profit (in millions) $ 20,271 $ 15,122 $ 10,789 Gross margin 27.2 % 24.8 % 22.4 % Gross margin increased in 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to services sales increasing as a percentage of total sales. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations 26 Table of Contents and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search programs and our Associates program, payroll and related expenses, and television advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content such as technology infrastructure, including AWS,  expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, and initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services, as well as in technology infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services, and increased spending on technology infrastructure, including AWS. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in these areas by increasing payroll and related expenses and adding technology infrastructure. For 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , we capitalized $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation), $454 million (including $74 million of stock-based compensation), and $307 million (including $51 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $451 million , $327 million , and $236 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure, other technology, and operating costs incurred to support AWS are included in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $1.1 billion , $833 million , and $557 million during 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . The increase in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to an increase in the number of stock-based compensation awards granted to existing and new employees. 27 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $114 million , $159 million , and $154 million during 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets, partially offset by the settlement of certain unclaimed property and indemnification claims in Q3 2013. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations increased 10% in 2013 , decreased 22% in 2012 , and decreased 39% in 2011 . Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $38 million , $40 million , and $61 million during 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary components of our interest expense are related to our long-term debt and capital and financing lease arrangements. Interest expense was $141 million , $92 million , and $65 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Our long-term debt was $3.2 billion and $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Our other long-term liabilities were $4.2 billion and $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Note 7—Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(136) million , $(80) million , and $76 million during 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign-currency gains (losses) on intercompany balances. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $161 million , $428 million , and $291 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Our effective tax rate in 2013 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective tax rate in 2012 primarily due to   the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions, a decline in the proportion of our losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, and the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research and development credit, which expired in December 2013. The favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions primarily relates to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. In 2013, we recognized tax benefits for a greater proportion of these losses as compared to 2012. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. In 2012, our effective tax rate was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective tax rate in 2011 primarily due to the adverse impact of foreign jurisdiction losses of subsidiaries primarily located outside of Europe for which we may not realize a tax benefit. The adverse impact of these losses was partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations. Additionally, our effective tax rate in 2012 was more volatile as compared to 2011 due to the lower level of pre-tax income generated during the year, relative to our tax expense. Our effective tax rate in 2012 was also adversely impacted by acquisitions (including integrations), audit developments, nondeductible expenses, and changes in tax law such as the expiration of the U.S. federal research and development credit at the end of 2011. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2013 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $275 million and we had approximately $295 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. 28 Table of Contents Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(71) million , $(155) million , and $(12) million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Details of the activity are provided below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Equity in earnings (loss) of LivingSocial: Impairment charges recorded by LivingSocial $ (12 ) $ (170 ) $ — Gain on existing equity interests, LivingSocial acquisitions — 75 — Operating and other losses (58 ) (96 ) (178 ) Total equity in earnings (loss) of LivingSocial (70 ) (191 ) (178 ) Other equity-method investment activity: Amazon dilution gains on LivingSocial investment — 37 114 Recovery on sale of equity position — — 49 Other, net (1 ) (1 ) 3 Total other equity-method investment activity (1 ) 36 166 Equity-method investment activity, net of tax $ (71 ) $ (155 ) $ (12 ) Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 Year Ended December 31, 2012 Year Ended December 31, 2011 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 75,736 $ (1,284 ) $ 74,452 $ 61,947 $ (854 ) $ 61,093 $ 46,985 $ 1,092 $ 48,077 Operating expenses 74,962 (1,255 ) 73,707 61,257 (840 ) 60,417 46,176 1,039 47,215 Income from operations 774 (29 ) 745 690 (14 ) 676 809 53 862 ___________________ (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of “Free cash flow,” operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development,” which are included in cash flow from investing activities. We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flow from operations since purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt, property and equipment acquired under capital leases and other leases accounted for as financing arrangements, or cash 29 Table of Contents payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 5,475 $ 4,180 $ 3,903 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (3,444 ) (3,785 ) (1,811 ) Free cash flow $ 2,031 $ 395 $ 2,092 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (4,276 ) $ (3,595 ) $ (1,930 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (539 ) $ 2,259 $ (482 ) Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expenses is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on January 30, 2014 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 30, 2014 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2013 (in millions, except percentages): 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2013 Money market funds $ 5,914 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 5,914 $ 5,914 Weighted average interest rate 0.12 % — % — % — % — % — % 0.12 % Corporate debt securities 158 267 247 27 19 — 718 741 Weighted average interest rate 0.56 % 0.70 % 1.02 % 1.65 % 1.62 % — % 0.84 % U.S. government and agency securities 1,141 544 348 151 25 — 2,209 2,222 Weighted average interest rate 0.20 % 0.47 % 0.98 % 1.30 % 2.40 % — % 0.49 % Asset backed securities 25 20 19 — — — 64 65 Weighted average interest rate 0.57 % 0.72 % 1.01 % — % — % — % 0.75 % Foreign government and agency securities 62 289 351 24 3 — 729 758 Weighted average interest rate 0.19 % 0.22 % 0.35 % 0.64 % 1.49 % — % 0.30 % Other securities 7 14 13 2 — — 36 36 Weighted average interest rate 0.68 % 0.79 % 1.10 % 1.57 % — % — % 0.91 % $ 7,307 $ 1,134 $ 978 $ 204 $ 47 $ — $ 9,670 Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ 9,736 As of December 31, 2013 , we had $3.9 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in three tranches: $750 million of 0.65% notes due in 2015; $1.0 billion of 1.20% notes due in 2017; and $1.3 billion of 2.50% notes due in 2022. The fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our debt was $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2013 . 31 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk During 2013 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 40% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our international websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Yuan. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2013 , International segment revenues decreased $1.3 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2013 , of $5.6 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $280 million, $560 million, and $1.1 billion. All investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2013 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $55 million, $120 million, and $270 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2013 , our recorded basis in equity investments was $127 million. These investments primarily relate to equity and cost method investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 32 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 34 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 35 Consolidated Statements of Operations 36 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 37 Consolidated Balance Sheets 38 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 39 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 40 33 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2013 and 2012 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 , based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) and our report dated January 30, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 30, 2014 34 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 8,084 $ 5,269 $ 3,777 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) 274 (39 ) 631 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization 3,253 2,159 1,083 Stock-based compensation 1,134 833 557 Other operating expense (income), net 114 154 154 Losses (gains) on sales of marketable securities, net 1 (9 ) (4 ) Other expense (income), net 166 253 (56 ) Deferred income taxes (156 ) (265 ) 136 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (78 ) (429 ) (62 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (1,410 ) (999 ) (1,777 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (846 ) (861 ) (866 ) Accounts payable 1,888 2,070 2,997 Accrued expenses and other 736 1,038 1,067 Additions to unearned revenue 2,691 1,796 1,064 Amortization of previously unearned revenue (2,292 ) (1,521 ) (1,021 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 5,475 4,180 3,903 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (3,444 ) (3,785 ) (1,811 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (312 ) (745 ) (705 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments 2,306 4,237 6,843 Purchases of marketable securities and other investments (2,826 ) (3,302 ) (6,257 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (4,276 ) (3,595 ) (1,930 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 78 429 62 Common stock repurchased — (960 ) (277 ) Proceeds from long-term debt and other 394 3,378 177 Repayments of long-term debt, capital lease, and finance lease obligations (1,011 ) (588 ) (444 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (539 ) 2,259 (482 ) Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (86 ) (29 ) 1 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 574 2,815 1,492 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 8,658 $ 8,084 $ 5,269 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 97 $ 31 $ 14 Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) 169 112 33 Property and equipment acquired under capital leases 1,867 802 753 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit leases 877 29 259 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 35 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net product sales $ 60,903 $ 51,733 $ 42,000 Net services sales 13,549 9,360 6,077 Total net sales 74,452 61,093 48,077 Operating expenses (1): Cost of sales 54,181 45,971 37,288 Fulfillment 8,585 6,419 4,576 Marketing 3,133 2,408 1,630 Technology and content 6,565 4,564 2,909 General and administrative 1,129 896 658 Other operating expense (income), net 114 159 154 Total operating expenses 73,707 60,417 47,215 Income from operations 745 676 862 Interest income 38 40 61 Interest expense (141 ) (92 ) (65 ) Other income (expense), net (136 ) (80 ) 76 Total non-operating income (expense) (239 ) (132 ) 72 Income before income taxes 506 544 934 Provision for income taxes (161 ) (428 ) (291 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (71 ) (155 ) (12 ) Net income (loss) $ 274 $ (39 ) $ 631 Basic earnings per share $ 0.60 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.39 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.59 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.37 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 457 453 453 Diluted 465 453 461 _____________ (1)    Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Fulfillment $ 294 $ 212 $ 133 Marketing 88 61 39 Technology and content 603 434 292 General and administrative 149 126 93 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net income (loss) $ 274 $ (39 ) $ 631 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $(20), $(30), and $20 63 76 (123 ) Net change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $3, $(3), and $1 (10 ) 8 (1 ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $(1), $3, and $1 1 (7 ) (2 ) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (9 ) 1 (3 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) 54 77 (126 ) Comprehensive income $ 328 $ 38 $ 505 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2013 2012 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 8,658 $ 8,084 Marketable securities 3,789 3,364 Inventories 7,411 6,031 Accounts receivable, net and other 4,767 3,817 Total current assets 24,625 21,296 Property and equipment, net 10,949 7,060 Goodwill 2,655 2,552 Other assets 1,930 1,647 Total assets $ 40,159 $ 32,555 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 15,133 $ 13,318 Accrued expenses and other 6,688 4,892 Unearned revenue 1,159 792 Total current liabilities 22,980 19,002 Long-term debt 3,191 3,084 Other long-term liabilities 4,242 2,277 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 483 and 478 Outstanding shares — 459 and 454 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (1,837 ) (1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 9,573 8,347 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (185 ) (239 ) Retained earnings 2,190 1,916 Total stockholders’ equity 9,746 8,192 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 40,159 $ 32,555 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2011 451 $ 5 $ (600 ) $ 6,325 $ (190 ) $ 1,324 $ 6,864 Net income — — — — — 631 631 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (126 ) — (126 ) Exercise of common stock options 5 — — 7 — — 7 Repurchase of common stock (1 ) — (277 ) — — — (277 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 62 — — 62 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 569 — — 569 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 27 — — 27 Balance as of December 31, 2011 455 5 (877 ) 6,990 (316 ) 1,955 7,757 Net income (loss) — — — — — (39 ) (39 ) Other comprehensive income — — — — 77 — 77 Exercise of common stock options 4 — — 8 — — 8 Repurchase of common stock (5 ) — (960 ) — — — (960 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 429 — — 429 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 854 — — 854 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 66 — — 66 Balance as of December 31, 2012 454 5 (1,837 ) 8,347 (239 ) 1,916 8,192 Net income — — — — — 274 274 Other comprehensive income — — — — 54 — 54 Exercise of common stock options 5 — — 4 — — 4 Repurchase of common stock — — — — — — — Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 73 — — 73 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 1,149 — — 1,149 Balance as of December 31, 2013 459 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 9,573 $ (185 ) $ 2,190 $ 9,746 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our two geographic segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. See “Note 12—Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Unearned revenue is now presented separately on our consolidated balance sheets. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we recognize a net loss, we exclude the impact of outstanding stock awards from the diluted loss per share calculation as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 457 453 453 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 8 — 8 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 465 453 461 Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or 40 Table of Contents determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the estimated selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on costs. Sales of our Kindle device are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, 3G wireless access and delivery for some models, and software upgrades. The revenue related to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are recognized upon delivery as cost of sales. Revenue related to 3G wireless access and delivery and software upgrades is amortized over the average life of the device. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Instant Video, and access to the Kindle Owners' Lending Library.  The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership according to the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and services sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital content where we are the seller of record. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Kindle devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Services sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when services have been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $167 million , $198 million , and $155 million as of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011.  Additions to the allowance were $907 million , $702 million , and $542 million , and deductions to the allowance were $938 million , $659 million , and $490 million as of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Total net sales.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates.  We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory or cost of services.  Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. 41 Table of Contents When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $2.4 billion , $2.0 billion , and $1.4 billion in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally of technology infrastructure expenses and payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, product, and platform development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, systems support, and initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services, as well as costs associated with AWS. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of intangible asset amortization expense and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains and losses of $(137) million , $(95) million , and $64 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , and realized gains and losses on marketable securities sales of $(1) million , $10 million , and $4 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . 42 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2013 . Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 as of December 31, 2013 , or December 31, 2012 . Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. 43 Table of Contents We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , vendor receivables, net, were $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion , and customer receivables, net, were $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion . Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $153 million , $116 million , and $82 million as of December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Additions to the allowance were $172 million , $136 million , and $87 million , and deductions to the allowance were $135 million , $102 million , and $82 million as of December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , we capitalized $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation), $454 million (including $74 million of stock-based compensation), and $307 million (including $51 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $451 million , $327 million , and $236 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, financing, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as financing leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative 44 Table of Contents factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the periods presented. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2013 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; digital video content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and intellectual property rights, net of amortization. Content Costs We obtain digital video content through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions and generally have terms from one to five years with fixed payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie or television title is determinable or reasonably estimable and available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee per title and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset as cost of sales on a straight-line basis over each title’s contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from six months to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents,” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of our investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities, and goodwill, is included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of the related intangible assets, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Our share of the net income or loss of our equity - method investees includes operating and non-operating gains and charges, which can have a significant impact on our reported equity-method investment activity and the carrying value of those investments. In the event that net losses of the investee reduce our equity-method investment carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee, not accounted for under the equity method, are at-risk even if we have not committed to provide financial support to the investee. We regularly evaluate these investments, which are not carried at fair value, for other-than-temporary impairment. We also consider whether our equity-method investments generate sufficient cash flows from their operating or financing activities to meet their obligations and repay their liabilities when they come due. We record purchases, including incremental purchases, of shares in equity-method investees at cost. Reductions in our ownership percentage of an investee, including through dilution, are generally valued at fair value, with the difference between fair value and our recorded cost reflected as a gain or loss in our equity-method investment activity. In the event we no longer have the ability to exercise significant influence over an equity-method investee, we would discontinue accounting for the investment under the equity method. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. 45 Table of Contents Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in “Marketable securities” in our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2013 or 2012 . Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were liabilities of $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion for unredeemed gift cards. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to Amazon Prime memberships and AWS. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, Italy, Spain, Brazil, India, Mexico, and Australia . Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $(84) million , $(95) million , and $70 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . 46 Table of Contents Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2013 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 3,008 $ — $ — $ 3,008 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 5,914 — — 5,914 Equity securities 3 1 — 4 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 757 2 (1 ) 758 U.S. government and agency securities 2,224 1 (3 ) 2,222 Corporate debt securities 739 3 (1 ) 741 Asset-backed securities 65 — — 65 Other fixed income securities 36 — — 36 $ 12,746 $ 7 $ (5 ) $ 12,748 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (301 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 12,447 December 31, 2012 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 2,595 $ — $ — $ 2,595 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 5,561 — — 5,561 Equity securities 2 — — 2 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 763 9 — 772 U.S. government and agency securities 1,809 3 (2 ) 1,810 Corporate debt securities 719 6 — 725 Asset-backed securities 49 — — 49 Other fixed income securities 33 — — 33 $ 11,531 $ 18 $ (2 ) $ 11,547 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (99 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 11,448 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate lease agreements. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies.” 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Realized gains $ 6 $ 20 $ 15 Realized losses (7 ) 10 11 The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2013 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 7,226 $ 7,227 Due after one year through five years 2,115 2,118 Due after five years through ten years 133 132 Due after ten years 261 259 $ 9,735 $ 9,736 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. Note 3—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 4,584 $ 2,966 Equipment and internal-use software (2) 9,274 6,228 Other corporate assets 231 174 Construction in progress 720 214 Gross property and equipment 14,809 9,582 Total accumulated depreciation (1) 3,860 2,522 Total property and equipment, net $ 10,949 $ 7,060 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. (2) Includes internal-use software of $1.1 billion and $866 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . In December 2012, we acquired our corporate headquarters for $1.2 billion consisting of land and 11 buildings that were previously accounted for as financing leases. The acquired building assets will be depreciated over their estimated useful lives of 40 years . We also acquired three city blocks of land for the expansion of our corporate headquarters for approximately $210 million . Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $2.5 billion , $1.7 billion , and $1.0 billion , which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital lease obligations of $826 million , $510 million , and $335 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $4.2 billion and $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $1.9 billion and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Cash paid for interest on capital leases was $41 million , $51 million , and $44 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our 48 Table of Contents significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and financing leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term financing lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under financing leases were $578 million and $9 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Accumulated depreciation associated with financing leases was $22 million and $5 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . Note 4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2013 Acquisition Activity In 2013 , we acquired several companies in cash transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $195 million , resulting in goodwill of $103 million and acquired intangible assets of $83 million . The primary reasons for these acquisitions were to expand our customer base and sales channels and to obtain certain technologies to be used in product development.  We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2012 Acquisition Activity In May 2012, we acquired Kiva Systems, Inc. (“Kiva”) for a purchase price of $678 million . The primary reason for this acquisition was to improve fulfillment center productivity. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of this acquisition was allocated as follows (in millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 613 Stock options assumed 65 $ 678 Allocation Goodwill $ 560 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 5 Contract-based 3 Technology-based 168 Customer-related 17 193 Property and equipment 9 Deferred tax assets 34 Other assets acquired 41 Deferred tax liabilities (81 ) Other liabilities assumed (78 ) $ 678 ___________________ (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between four and 10 years, with a weighted-average amortization period of five years. The fair value of assumed stock options was estimated using the Black-Scholes model. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. 49 Table of Contents Pro Forma Financial Information – 2012 Acquisition Activity (unaudited) Kiva was consolidated into our financial statements starting on its acquisition date. The net sales and operating loss of Kiva recorded in our consolidated statement of operations from its acquisition date through December 31, 2012, were $61 million and $(62) million . The following pro forma financial information presents our results as if the Kiva acquisition had occurred at the beginning of 2011 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Net sales $ 61,118 $ 48,157 Net income (loss) (2 ) 499 2011 Acquisition Activity In 2011, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $771 million . The primary reasons for these acquisitions, none of which was individually material to our consolidated financial statements, were to expand our customer base and sales channels, including our consumer channels and subscription entertainment services. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 637 Existing equity interest 89 Indemnification holdbacks 25 Stock options assumed 20 $ 771 Allocation Goodwill $ 615 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 130 Customer-related 94 Contract-based 6 230 Property and equipment 119 Deferred tax assets 49 Other assets acquired 68 Accounts payable (65 ) Debt (70 ) Deferred tax liabilities (75 ) Other liabilities assumed (100 ) $ 771 ___________________ (1) Amortization periods range from two to 10 years, with a weighted-average amortization period of eight years. In addition to cash consideration and the fair value of vested stock options, the aggregate purchase price included the estimated fair value of our previous, noncontrolling interest in one of the acquired companies. We remeasured this equity interest to fair value at the acquisition date and recognized a non-cash gain of $6 million in “Equity-method investment activity, net of tax,” in our 2011 consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of assumed stock options was estimated using the Black-Scholes model. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. 50 Table of Contents Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily related to expected improvements in fulfillment center productivity and sales growth from future product offerings and customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2013 and 2012 by segment (in millions): North America International Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2012 $ 1,533 $ 422 $ 1,955 New acquisitions (1) 403 184 587 Other adjustments (2) 1 9 10 Goodwill - December 31, 2012 1,937 615 2,552 New acquisitions 99 4 103 Other adjustments (2) (3 ) 3 — Goodwill - December 31, 2013 $ 2,033 $ 622 $ 2,655 ___________________ (1) Primarily consists of the goodwill of Kiva. (2) Primarily consists of changes in foreign exchange. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Marketing-related 6.3 $ 429 $ (156 ) $ 273 $ 422 $ (113 ) $ 309 Contract-based 3.0 173 (110 ) 63 177 (89 ) 88 Technology- and content-based 4.4 278 (74 ) 204 231 (30 ) 201 Customer-related 2.4 368 (263 ) 105 332 (205 ) 127 Acquired intangibles (2) 4.2 $ 1,248 $ (603 ) $ 645 $ 1,162 $ (437 ) $ 725 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and 10 years. 51 Table of Contents Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $168 million , $163 million , and $149 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2013 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 $ 157 2015 140 2016 121 2017 101 2018 54 Thereafter 72 $ 645 Note 5—EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTS LivingSocial’s summarized condensed financial information, as provided to us by LivingSocial, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Statement of Operations: Revenue $ 399 $ 455 $ 238 Operating expense 461 666 613 Impairment charge 41 579 — Operating loss from continuing operations (103 ) (790 ) (375 ) Net loss from continuing operations (1) (101 ) (532 ) (417 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (2) (82 ) (121 ) (82 ) Net loss $ (183 ) $ (653 ) $ (499 ) ___________________ (1) The difference between operating loss from continuing operations and net loss from continuing operations for 2012 is primarily due to non-operating, non-cash gains on previously held equity positions in companies that LivingSocial acquired during Q1 2012. (2) In November 2013, LivingSocial announced that it had reached an agreement to sell its Korean operations for $260 million . The transaction closed in January 2014. The statement of operations information above has been recast to present its Korean operations as discontinued operations. December 31, 2013 2012 Balance Sheet: Current assets $ 81 $ 74 Non-current assets 152 216 Current liabilities 298 336 Non-current liabilities 36 14 Redeemable stock 315 205 Balance sheet financial information as of December 31, 2013 includes $146 million in assets and $122 million in liabilities that LivingSocial has classified as held for sale for its Korean operations. As of December 31, 2013 , the book value of our equity-method investment in LivingSocial has been reduced to zero due to our recognition of equity-method losses over time. In Q1 2013 we made a $56 million investment in LivingSocial that we have recorded as a cost method investment, bringing our total investment in LivingSocial to approximately 31% of voting stock. In Q4 2013, we recognized additional equity-method losses and reduced this cost method investment to $38 million as of December 31, 2013. 52 Table of Contents Note 6—LONG-TERM DEBT In November 2012, we issued $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes in three tranches as described in the table below (collectively, the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , the unamortized discount on the Notes was $23 million and $27 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion, of $967 million and $691 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 0.65% Notes due on November 27, 2015 $ 750 $ 750 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 1,000 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 1,250 1,250 Other long-term debt 967 691 Total debt 3,967 3,691 Less current portion of long-term debt (753 ) (579 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 3,214 $ 3,112 The effective interest rates of the 2015, 2017, and 2022 Notes were 0.84% , 1.38% , and 2.66% . Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $2.9 billion and $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , which is based on quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt as of that date. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted average interest rate of 5.5% and 6.4% as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of the debt to primarily fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 . As of December 31, 2013 , future principal payments for debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 $ 753 2015 853 2016 36 2017 1,037 2018 38 Thereafter 1,250 $ 3,967 53 Table of Contents Note 7—OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 1,435 $ 737 Long-term financing lease obligations 555 9 Construction liabilities 385 87 Tax contingencies 457 336 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 571 476 Other 839 632 $ 4,242 $ 2,277 Capital Leases Certain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 Gross capital lease obligations $ 2,437 Less imputed interest (47 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 2,390 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (955 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 1,435 Financing Leases We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liabilities.” As such, these arrangements are accounted for as financing leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 Gross financing lease obligations $ 783 Less imputed interest (200 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 583 Less current portion of financing lease obligations (28 ) Total long-term financing lease obligations $ 555 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. Tax Contingencies We have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, of approximately $457 million as of December 31, 2013 , and $336 million as of December 31, 2012 , for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See “Note 11—Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. 54 Table of Contents Note 8—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and financing leases for equipment and office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $759 million , $561 million , and $381 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2013 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter Total Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and interest $ 835 $ 906 $ 81 $ 1,081 $ 69 $ 1,375 $ 4,347 Capital leases, including interest 963 883 361 71 42 117 2,437 Financing lease obligations, including interest 49 48 52 52 53 529 783 Operating leases 752 654 604 539 470 2,116 5,135 Unconditional purchase obligations (1) 539 386 80 37 29 27 1,098 Other commitments (2) (3) 746 275 167 137 110 1,194 2,629 Total commitments $ 3,884 $ 3,152 $ 1,345 $ 1,917 $ 773 $ 5,358 $ 16,429 ___________________ (1) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to agreements to acquire and license digital video content that represent long-term liabilities or are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate what the total obligation may be beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that have not been placed in service. (3) Excludes $407 million of tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $482 million and $99 million of our cash, marketable securities, and certain fixed assets as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. Suppliers During 2013 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon.com International Sales, Inc., Amazon EU Sarl, Amazon.de GmbH, Amazon.com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contested Austro-Mechana’s claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. We lost this appeal and in March 2011 commenced an appeal in the Supreme Court of Austria. In October 2011, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case to the European Court of Justice (ECJ). In July 2013, the European Court of Justice ruled that EU law does not preclude application 55 Table of Contents of the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back to the Austrian Supreme Court for further proceedings. In October 2013, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back to the Commercial Court of Vienna for further fact finding to determine whether the tariff on blank digital media meets the conditions set by the ECJ. In December 2012, a German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte (ZPU), filed a complaint against Amazon EU Sarl, Amazon Media EU Sarl, Amazon Services Europe Sarl, Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings Sarl in the District Court of Luxembourg seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.de retail website to customers located in Germany. In January 2013, a Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed a complaint against Amazon EU Sarl in the Court of First Instance of Brussels, Belgium, seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.fr retail website to customers located in Belgium. In November 2013, the Belgian court ruled in favor of AUVIBEL and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Payments, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes patents owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover an “Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce And Business Automation System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,115,690 and 6,343,275) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In February 2011, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patent. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In April 2011, Walker Digital LLC filed several complaints against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaints allege that we infringe several of the plaintiff’s U.S. patents by, among other things, providing “cross benefits” to customers through our promotions (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470 and 7,827,056), using a customer’s identified original product to offer a substitute product (U.S. Patent No. 7,236,942), using our product recommendations and personalization features to offer complementary products together (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,601,036 and 6,138,105), enabling customers to subscribe to a delivery schedule for products they routinely use at reduced prices (U.S. Patent No. 5,970,470), and offering personalized advertising based on customers’ preferences identified using a data pattern (U.S. Patent No. 7,933,893). Another complaint, filed in the same court in October 2011, alleges that we infringe plaintiff’s U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 by offering personalized advertising based on customer preferences that associate data with resource locators. Another complaint, filed in the same court in February 2012, alleges that we infringe plaintiff’s U.S. Patent No. 8,112,359 by using product information received from customers to identify and offer substitute products using a manufacturer database. In January 2013, the plaintiff filed another complaint in the same court alleging that we infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,381,582 by allowing customers to make local payments for products ordered online. All of the complaints seek monetary damages, interest, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In March 2013, the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,236,942 and 7,933,893 were voluntarily dismissed with prejudice. In April 2013, the case asserting U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 was stayed pending final resolution of the reexamination of that patent. In June 2013, the court granted defendants’ motions to dismiss the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359 for lack of standing. In July 2013, we filed motions seeking entry of a final judgment dismissing those claims with prejudice and for attorneys' fees, and plaintiff filed notices of appeal from the June 2013 order granting the motions to dismiss.   In October 2013, the court ruled that its dismissals are with prejudice, and Walker has appealed those rulings. We dispute the remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In December 2011, Personalweb Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) and Amazon ElastiCache” infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,978,791, entitled “Data Processing System Using Substantially Unique Identifiers To Identify Data Items, Whereby Data Items Have The Same Identifiers”; U.S. Patent No. 6,415,280, entitled “Identifying And Requesting Data In Network Using Identifiers Which Are Based On Contents Of Data”; U.S. Patent No. 6,928,442, entitled “Enforcement And Policing Of Licensed Content Using Content-Based Identifiers”; U.S. Patent No. 7,802,310, entitled “Controlling Access To Data In A Data Processing System”; U.S. Patent No. 7,945,539, entitled “Distributing And Accessing Data In A Data Processing System”; U.S. Patent No. 7,945,544, entitled “Similarity-Based Access Control Of Data In A Data Processing System”; U.S. Patent No. 7,949,662, entitled “De-Duplication Of Data In A Data Processing System”; and U.S. Patent No. 8,001,096, entitled “Computer File System Using Content-Dependent File Identifiers.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2011, Round Rock Research, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “RFID products” and “Kindle products with unlicensed DRAM” infringe: U.S. Patent Nos. 5,500,650 and 5,627,544, entitled “Data Communication Method Using Identification Protocol”; U.S. Patent No. 5,974,078, entitled “Modulated Spread Spectrum In RF Identification Systems Method”; U.S. Patent No. 6,459,726, entitled “Backscatter Interrogators, Communication Systems And Backscatter 56 Table of Contents Communication Methods”; U.S. Patent No. RE41,531, entitled “Communications Systems For Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)”; U.S. Patent Nos. 6,975,556 and 7,106,646, entitled “Circuit And Method For Controlling A Clock Synchronizing Circuit For Low Power Refresh Operation”; U.S. Patent No. 7,221,020, entitled “Method To Construct A Self Aligned Recess Gate For DRAM Access Devices”; and U.S. Patent No. 7,389,369, entitled “Active Termination Control.” In February 2012, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint that further alleges, among other things, that Kindle products allegedly including “unlicensed flash memory” infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,801,985, entitled “Memory System Having Programmable Control Parameters” and U.S. Patent No. 5,880,996, entitled “Memory System Having Non-Volatile Data Storage Structure For Memory Control Parameters And Method.” In April 2012, the plaintiff filed a second amended complaint further alleging, among other things, that “RFID products” infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,266,925, entitled “Electronic Tag Interrogation Method,” U.S. Patent No. 5,583,850, entitled “Data Communication System Using Identification Protocol,” U.S. Patent No. 5,986,570, entitled “Method For Resolving Signal Collisions Between Multiple RFID Transponders In A Field,” U.S. Patent No. 7,265,674, entitled “Thin, Flexible RFID Labels, And Methods And Apparatus For Use,” and U.S. Patent No. RE41,562, entitled “System And Method For Electronic Tracking Of Units Associated With A Batch.” The second amended complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In April 2012, the case was stayed pending reexamination of ten of the asserted patents. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In March 2012, OIP Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleged, among other things, that certain aspects of our pricing methods infringed U.S. Patent No. 7,970,713, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Automatic Pricing In Electronic Commerce.” The complaint sought three times an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. In September 2012, the Court invalidated the plaintiff’s patent and dismissed the case with prejudice. In September 2012, OIP appealed the judgment of the district court to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which, in November 2012, stayed all proceedings pending its decision in a separate case that raises a related question of law and, in June 2013, continued the stay pending a decision by the United States Supreme Court. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In May 2012, Clouding IP, LLC f/k/a/ STEC IP, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our “Elastic Compute Cloud,” “WhisperSync,” “Virtual Private Cloud,” “Cloud Drive,” and “Kindle Store” services infringe one or more of 11 patents: U.S. Patent Nos. 7,596,784, entitled “Method System And Apparatus For Providing Pay-Per-Use Distributed Computing Resources”; 7,065,637, entitled “System For Configuration Of Dynamic Computing Environments Using A Visual Interface”; 6,738,799, entitled “Methods And Apparatuses For File Synchronization And Updating Using A Signature List”; 5,944,839, entitled “System And Method For Automatically Maintaining A Computer System”; 5,825,891, entitled “Key Management For Network Communication”; 5,495,607, entitled “Network Management System Having Virtual Catalog Of Files Distributively Stored Across Network Domain”; 6,925,481 and 7,254,621, entitled “Technique For Enabling Remote Data Access And Manipulation From A Pervasive Device”; 6,631,449 and 6,918,014, entitled “Dynamic Distributed Data System And Method”; and 6,963,908, entitled “System For Transferring Customized Hardware And Software Settings From One Computer To Another Computer To Provide Personalized Operating Environments.” In August 2012, Clouding amended its complaint to also assert U.S. Patent No. 7,032,089, entitled “Replica Synchronization Using Copy-On-Read Technique,” against WhisperSync. In February 2013, Clouding served its notice of accused products in which it also identified “AWS Market Place,” “AWS Storage Gateway,” “Cloud Player,” “DynamoDB,” “Elastic Block Store (EBS),” “Elastic Load Balancing,” “Elastic Map Reduce,” “Relational Database Service,” “Simple Storage Service,” “Simple DB,” “Cloud Watch,” “Kindle,” and “Elastic Compute Cloud AutoScaling” as allegedly infringing. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages together with interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In June 2012, Hand Held Products, Inc., a subsidiary of Honeywell, filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., AMZN Mobile, LLC, AmazonFresh, LLC, A9.com, Inc., A9 Innovations, LLC, and Quidsi, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of mobile barcode reader applications, including Amazon Mobile, Amazon Price Check, Flow, and AmazonFresh, infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,015,088, entitled “Decoding Of Real Time Video Imaging.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and an injunction. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2012, Norman Blagman filed a purported class-action complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for copyright infringement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. sells digital music in our Amazon MP3 Store obtained from defendant Orchard Enterprises and other unnamed “digital music aggregators” without obtaining mechanical licenses for the compositions embodied in that music. The complaint seeks certification as a class action, statutory damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 57 Table of Contents In August 2012, an Australian quasi-government entity named Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the sale of “products which are operable according to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (“IEEE”) 802.11a, g, n, and/or draft n standards” infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,487,069, entitled “Wireless LAN.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2012, Lexington Luminance LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Digital Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain light-emitting diodes in certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,936,851, entitled “Semiconductor Light-Emitting Device And Method For Manufacturing Same.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and an injunction or, in the absence of an injunction, a compulsory ongoing royalty. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In May 2013, Adaptix, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,454,212 and 6,947,748, both entitled “OFDMA With Adaptive Subcarrier-Cluster Configuration And Selective Loading.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2013, Telebuyer, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon Web Services, LLC, and VADATA, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain features used on our retail website-including high resolution video and still images, user-indicated areas of interest, targeted follow-up communications, vendor proposals, on-line chat, Gold Box and Lightning Deals, and vendor ratings-infringe seven U.S. patents: Nos. 6,323,894, 7,835,508, 7,835,509, 7,839,984, 8,059,796, and 8,098,272, all entitled “Commercial Product Routing System With Video Vending Capability,” and 8,315,364, entitled “Commercial Product Routing System With Mobile Wireless And Video Vending Capability.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief. In September 2013, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In August 2013, Cellular Communications Equipment, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos.: 6,819,923, entitled “Method For Communication Of Neighbor Cell Information”; 7,215,962, entitled “Method For An Intersystem Connection Handover”; 7,941,174, entitled “Method For Multicode Transmission By A Subscriber Station”; and 8,055,820, entitled “Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating A Buffer Status Reporting Format Based On Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions.”  The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and interest.  We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in August 2013, a number of complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries failed to compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting in security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law.  In August 2013, Busk v. Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, and Vance v. Amazon.com, Inc., Zappos.com Inc., another affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky.  In September 2013, Allison v. Amazon.com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, and Johnson v. Amazon.com, Inc. and an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky.  In October 2013, Davis v. Amazon.com, Inc., an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee.  The plaintiffs variously purport to represent a nationwide class of certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and/or state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees in states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims.  The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees.  We have been named in several other similar cases.  We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In September 2013, Personalized Media Communications, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.  The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of certain Kindle devices, Kindle apps and/or Amazon.com, Inc.’s website to purchase and receive electronic media infringes nine U.S. Patents:  Nos. 5,887,243, 7,801,304, 7,805,749, 7,940,931, 7,769,170, 7,864,956, 7,827,587, 8,046,791, and 7,883,252, all entitled “Signal Processing Apparatus And Methods.” The complaint also alleges, among other things, that CloudFront, S3, and EC2 web services infringe three of those patents, Nos. 7,801,304, 7,864,956, and 7,827,587.  The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief.  We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 58 Table of Contents In October 2013, Mobile Telecommunications Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our network operation centers and our mobile devices, such as Kindle Fire models based on the Android operating system that provide XMPP-compliant messaging services and applications, infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,809,428, entitled “Method And Device For Processing Undelivered Data Messages In A Two-Way Wireless Communications System.” The complaint also alleges that Amazon’s mobile devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,754,946, entitled “Nationwide Communication System,” and that Amazon.com, Inc. infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,786,748, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Giving Notification Of Express Mail Delivery,” by providing tracking and notification services to customers who purchase products directly from Amazon.com, Inc. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In October 2013, Tuxis Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “the Amazon.com website” with “recommendation features” infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,055,513, entitled “Methods And Apparatus For Intelligent Selection Of Goods And Services In Telephonic And Electronic Commerce.”  The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2013, Memory Integrity, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,296,121, entitled “Reducing Probe Traffic In Multiprocessor Systems.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, costs, expenses, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2013, Vantage Point Technology, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Kindle devices with a Cortex A-9 core processor and OMAP 4430 chipset, Kindle device HD tablets with a Cortex A-9 core processor and OMAP 4470 chipset, and Kindle devices with a Cortex A-8 core processor and Freescale MX50 family chipset infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,463,750, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Translating Virtual Addresses In A Data Processing System Having Multiple Instruction Pipelines And Separate TLB’s For Each Pipeline.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2013, Appistry, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 8,200,746, entitled “System And Method For Territory-Based Processing Of Information,” and  8,341,209, entitled “System And Method For Processing Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of monetary damages, trebled damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2013, Delaware Display Group LLC and Innovative Display Technologies LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s tablets with liquid crystal displays infringe U.S. Patent Nos.: 6,755,547, 7,300,194, 7,384,177, 7,404,660, 7,434,974, 7,357,370, and 8,215,816, all entitled “Light Emitting Panel Assemblies.” The complaint also alleges that tablets with liquid crystal displays infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,914,196, entitled “Light Redirecting Film Systems Having Pattern Of Variable Optical Elements.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of monetary damages, costs, interest, and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2013, ContentGuard Holdings, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain digital rights management software used by various Kindle Fire software applications, including the Kindle Reader and Amazon Instant Video, infringe seven U.S. Patents:  Nos. 6,963,859, entitled “Content Rendering Repository”; 7,523,072, entitled “System For Controlling The Distribution And Use Of Digital Works”; 7,269,576, entitled “Content Rendering Apparatus”; 8,370,956, entitled “System And Method For Rendering Digital Content In Accordance With Usage Rights Information”; 8,393,007, entitled “System And Method For Distributing Digital Content In Accordance With Usage Rights Information”; 7,225,160, entitled “Digital Works Having Usage Rights And Method For Creating The Same”; and 8,583,556, entitled “Method For Providing A Digital Asset For Distribution.”  The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 59 Table of Contents The outcomes of our legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period.  In addition, for some matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, an estimate of the amount of loss or range of loss is not possible and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. See also “Note 11—Income Taxes.” Note 9—STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 476 million , 470 million , and 468 million , as of December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock with no fixed expiration. We have $763 million remaining under the $2.0 billion repurchase program. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2011 14.0 $ 96 Units granted 5.4 193 Units vested (5.1 ) 73 Units forfeited (1.2 ) 122 Outstanding as of December 31, 2011 13.1 143 Units granted 8.2 209 Units vested (4.2 ) 110 Units forfeited (1.7 ) 168 Outstanding as of December 31, 2012 15.4 184 Units granted 7.2 283 Units vested (4.5 ) 160 Units forfeited (1.8 ) 209 Outstanding as of December 31, 2013 16.3 $ 233 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2013 , is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 5.4 5.8 3.2 1.6 0.2 0.1 16.3 60 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013 , there was $1.7 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted-average recognition period of 1.2 years. During 2013 and 2012 , the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $1.4 billion and $928 million . As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of common stock in 2013 and 2012 . Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance As of December 31, 2013 , common stock available for future issuance to employees is 143 million shares. Note 10—ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Changes in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive loss for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 are as follows (in millions): Foreign currency translation adjustments Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Total Balances as of January 1, 2011 $ (203 ) $ 13 $ (190 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (123 ) (3 ) (126 ) Balances as of December 31, 2011 (326 ) 10 (316 ) Other comprehensive income 76 1 77 Balances as of December 31, 2012 (250 ) 11 (239 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 63 (9 ) 54 Balances as of December 31, 2013 $ (187 ) $ 2 $ (185 ) Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net of their related income tax effects. Note 11—INCOME TAXES In 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , we recorded net tax provisions of $161 million , $428 million , and $291 million . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income.  Accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property were a result of U.S. legislation that expired in December 2013. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $169 million , $112 million , and $33 million for 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Current taxes: U.S. and state $ 144 $ 562 $ 103 International 173 131 52 Current taxes 317 693 155 Deferred taxes: U.S. and state (133 ) (156 ) 157 International (23 ) (109 ) (21 ) Deferred taxes (156 ) (265 ) 136 Provision for income taxes, net $ 161 $ 428 $ 291 61 Table of Contents U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 U.S. $ 704 $ 882 $ 658 International (198 ) (338 ) 276 Income before income taxes $ 506 $ 544 $ 934 The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Effect of: Impact of foreign tax differential (8.1 ) 31.5 (8.4 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 2.7 0.2 1.5 Tax credits (16.6 ) (4.4 ) (3.2 ) Nondeductible compensation 16.9 13.3 4.9 Domestic production activities deduction (2.1 ) — — Other, net 4.0 3.0 1.4 Total 31.8 % 78.6 % 31.2 % Our effective tax rate in 2013 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective tax rate in 2012 primarily due to the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions, a decline in the proportion of our losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, and the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research and development credit, which expired in December 2013. The favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions primarily relates to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. In 2013, we recognized tax benefits for a greater proportion of these losses as compared to 2012. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. In 2012, our effective tax rate was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective tax rate in 2011 primarily due to the adverse impact of foreign jurisdiction losses of subsidiaries primarily located outside of Europe for which we may not realize a tax benefit. The adverse impact of these losses was partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations. Additionally, our effective tax rate in 2012 was more volatile as compared to 2011 due to the lower level of pre-tax income generated during the year, relative to our tax expense. Our effective tax rate in 2012 was also adversely impacted by acquisitions (including integrations), audit developments, nondeductible expenses, and changes in tax law such as the expiration of the U.S. federal research and development credit at the end of 2011. In 2011, the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions offset the adverse impact of foreign jurisdiction losses and as a result, the effective tax rate was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. 62 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses U.S. - Federal/States (1) $ 53 $ 47 Net operating losses foreign (2) 427 289 Accrued liabilities, reserves, & other expenses 590 482 Stock-based compensation 396 281 Deferred revenue 249 129 Assets held for investment 164 129 Other items 177 133 Tax credits (3) 107 12 Total gross deferred tax assets 2,163 1,502 Less valuation allowance (4) (698 ) (415 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 1,465 1,087 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation & amortization (1,021 ) (698 ) Acquisition related intangible assets (201 ) (274 ) Other items (16 ) (29 ) Net deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance $ 227 $ 86 ___________________ (1) Excluding $81 million and $9 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (2) Excluding $2 million and $2 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (3) Excluding $227 million and $146 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , related to tax credits that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (4) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. As of December 31, 2013 , our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $275 million , $1.6 billion , and $880 million . The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state tax law. If not utilized, a portion of the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2027 , 2014 , and 2014 , respectively. As of December 31, 2013 , our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $334 million . If not utilized, a portion of the tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in 2020 . The Company’s consolidated balance sheets reflect tax credit carryforwards excluding amounts resulting from excess stock-based compensation. Accordingly, such credits from excess stock-based compensation are accounted for as an increase to additional paid-in capital if and when realized through a reduction in income taxes payable. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. 63 Table of Contents The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 294 $ 229 $ 213 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 78 91 22 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (18 ) (47 ) (3 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 54 26 4 Audit settlements paid (1 ) (4 ) (1 ) Lapse of statute of limitations — (1 ) (6 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 407 $ 294 $ 229 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2013 , we had $407 million of tax contingencies, of which $346 million , if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $33 million and $25 million . Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 was $8 million , $1 million , and $3 million . We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year 2005 or thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses. As previously disclosed, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax over a seven year period beginning in 2005, totaling approximately $1.5 billion , subject to interest. To date, we have not resolved this matter administratively and, in December 2012, we petitioned the U.S. Tax Court to resolve the matter. We continue to disagree with these IRS positions and intend to contest them vigorously. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by the French Tax Administration (“FTA”) for calendar year 2006 or thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes. While we have not yet received a final assessment from the FTA, in September 2012, we received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years 2006 through 2010 relating to the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions. The notices propose additional French tax of approximately $250 million , including interest and penalties through the date of the assessment. We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to contest it vigorously. We plan to pursue all available administrative remedies at the FTA, and if we are not able to resolve this matter with the FTA, we plan to pursue judicial remedies. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments by these particular tax authorities for the calendar year 2003 and thereafter. We expect the total amount of tax contingencies will grow in 2014 . In addition, changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements may or may not result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on tax filings in years through 2013 . The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes. Note 12—SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), net” to our segment operating results. A 64 Table of Contents majority of our costs for “Technology and content” are incurred in the U.S. and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based websites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from our U.S. and Canadian websites. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 North America Net sales $ 44,517 $ 34,813 $ 26,705 Segment operating expenses (1) 42,631 33,221 25,772 Segment operating income $ 1,886 $ 1,592 $ 933 International Net sales $ 29,935 $ 26,280 $ 21,372 Segment operating expenses (1) 29,828 26,204 20,732 Segment operating income $ 107 $ 76 $ 640 Consolidated Net sales $ 74,452 $ 61,093 $ 48,077 Segment operating expenses (1) 72,459 59,425 46,504 Segment operating income 1,993 1,668 1,573 Stock-based compensation (1,134 ) (833 ) (557 ) Other operating income (expense), net (114 ) (159 ) (154 ) Income from operations 745 676 862 Total non-operating income (expense) (239 ) (132 ) 72 Provision for income taxes (161 ) (428 ) (291 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (71 ) (155 ) (12 ) Net income (loss) $ 274 $ (39 ) $ 631 ___________________ (1) Represents operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense (income), net,” which are not allocated to segments. Net sales of similar products and services were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net Sales: Media $ 21,716 $ 19,942 $ 17,779 Electronics and other general merchandise 48,802 38,628 28,712 Other (1) 3,934 2,523 1,586 $ 74,452 $ 61,093 $ 48,077 ___________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. 65 Table of Contents Net sales generated from these internationally-focused websites are denominated in local functional currencies. Revenues are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed to foreign countries are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Germany $ 10,535 $ 8,732 $ 7,230 Japan 7,639 7,800 6,576 United Kingdom 7,291 6,478 5,348 Total assets, property and equipment, net, and total property and equipment additions, by geography, reconciled to consolidated amounts are (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 North America Total assets $ 26,108 $ 20,703 Property and equipment, net 8,447 5,481 Total property and equipment additions 4,837 3,348 International Total assets $ 14,051 $ 11,852 Property and equipment, net 2,502 1,579 Total property and equipment additions 1,536 969 Consolidated Total assets $ 40,159 $ 32,555 Property and equipment, net 10,949 7,060 Total property and equipment additions 6,373 4,317 Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net, in any single country was less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net. Depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 North America $ 1,863 $ 1,229 $ 795 International 597 424 239 Consolidated $ 2,460 $ 1,653 $ 1,034 66 Table of Contents Note 13—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2013 and 2012 . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2013 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 25,587 $ 17,092 $ 15,704 $ 16,070 Income (loss) from operations $ 510 $ (25 ) $ 79 $ 181 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 451 $ (43 ) $ 17 $ 81 Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 179 $ (12 ) $ 13 $ (18 ) Net income (loss) $ 239 $ (41 ) $ (7 ) $ 82 Basic earnings per share $ 0.52 $ (0.09 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.18 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.51 $ (0.09 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.18 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 458 457 456 455 Diluted 467 457 456 463 Year Ended December 31, 2012 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 21,268 $ 13,806 $ 12,834 $ 13,185 Income (loss) from operations $ 405 $ (28 ) $ 107 $ 192 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 337 $ (22 ) $ 146 $ 84 Provision for income taxes $ 194 $ 83 $ 109 $ 43 Net income (loss) $ 97 $ (274 ) $ 7 $ 130 Basic earnings per share $ 0.21 $ (0.60 ) $ 0.02 $ 0.29 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.21 $ (0.60 ) $ 0.01 $ 0.28 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 454 452 451 453 Diluted 461 452 458 460 ___________________ (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. 67 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 34  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Our company-sponsored research and development expense is set forth within “Technology and content” in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements of Operations.” Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Echo, and Fire phones. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, an annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and access to hundreds of thousands of books to borrow and read for free on a Kindle device. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; and digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 16 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 88,988 $ 74,452 $ 61,093 $ 48,077 $ 34,204 Income from operations $ 178 $ 745 $ 676 $ 862 $ 1,406 Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 274 $ (39 ) $ 631 $ 1,152 Basic earnings per share (1) $ (0.52 ) $ 0.60 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.39 $ 2.58 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ (0.52 ) $ 0.59 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.37 $ 2.53 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 462 457 453 453 447 Diluted 462 465 453 461 456 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 5,475 $ 4,180 $ 3,903 $ 3,495 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,893 ) (3,444 ) (3,785 ) (1,811 ) (979 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 1,949 $ 2,031 $ 395 $ 2,092 $ 2,516 December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 54,505 $ 40,159 $ 32,555 $ 25,278 $ 18,797 Total long-term obligations $ 15,675 $ 7,433 $ 5,361 $ 2,625 $ 1,561 ___________________ (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information as well as alternative free cash flow measures. 17 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key  accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. (4) Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing twelve month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter ends. (5) Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to current quarter cost of sales, multiplied by the number of days in the current quarter. 19 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2014 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $95 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an interim impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2014 , would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine a discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are short-term in nature or a longer-term trend. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate goodwill impairment. Changes in our estimated future cash flows and asset fair values may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2014 closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee classification, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate stock-based compensation. Changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $30 million impact on our 2014 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 was 27%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense adjustment is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic, political, and other 20 Table of Contents conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., many countries in the European Union, and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We are also subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken in 2005 and 2006, and we are currently contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, Amazon could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 6,842 $ 5,475 $ 4,180 Investing activities (5,065 ) (4,276 ) (3,595 ) Financing activities 4,432 (539 ) 2,259 Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $1.9 billion for 2014 , compared to $2.0 billion and $395 million for 2013 and 2012 . See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow for 2014, compared to the comparable prior year period, was due to increased cash capital expenditures partially offset by higher operating cash flows. The increase in free cash flow for 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, was due to higher operating cash flows and decreased cash capital expenditures. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including our decision to finance property and equipment under capital leases and other financing arrangements, and our net income (loss). Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $17.4 billion , $12.4 billion , and $11.4 billion as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Cash and cash equivalents also reflects net proceeds from the issuance of $6.0 billion of long-term debt as of December 31, 2014. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $5.4 billion , $5.6 billion, and $5.1 billion as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , and were primarily British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by operating activities was $6.8 billion , $5.5 billion , and $4.2 billion in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in non-cash charges to net income, including depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by changes in working capital. The increase in operating cash flow in 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by changes in working capital. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(5.1) billion , $(4.3) billion , and $(3.6) billion in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Cash capital expenditures were $4.9 billion , $3.4 billion , and $3.8 billion during 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . In December 2012, we acquired 11 buildings comprising 1.8 million square feet of our previously leased corporate office space and three city blocks in Seattle, Washington for $1.4 billion. Excluding this acquisition, increases in capital expenditures primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, during all three periods. We expect this trend to continue over time. Capital expenditures included $537 million, $493 million, and $381 million for internal-use software and website development during 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $979 million , $312 million , and $745 million . 22 Table of Contents Additionally, in January 2015, we signed an agreement to acquire a technology company for approximately $350 million in cash, which we expect to satisfy with cash on hand. We expect the acquisition to close in the first half of 2015, subject to closing conditions. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $4.4 billion , $(539) million , and $2.3 billion in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from common stock repurchases, principal payments on obligations related to capital and finance leases, and repayments of long-term debt. Principal payments on obligations related to capital leases, finance leases, and repayments of long-term debt were $1.9 billion , $1.0 billion , and $588 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $4.0 billion , $1.9 billion , and $802 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , with the increases reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS. We expect this trend to continue over time. We repurchased 5.3 million shares of common stock for $960 million in 2012 under the $2.0 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in January 2010. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $6.4 billion , $394 million , and $3.4 billion in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . During 2014, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $6.0 billion of senior nonconvertible unsecured debt in five tranches maturing in 2019 through 2044. During 2012, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $3.0 billion of senior nonconvertible unsecured debt in three tranches maturing in 2015 through 2022. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $6 million , $78 million , and $429 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . In September 2014, we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2014. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt” for additional information. In 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 we recorded net tax provisions of $167 million , $161 million , and $428 million . Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2014 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $4.6 billion, which included undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. of $2.5 billion . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2014, U.S. legislation was enacted providing a one year extension of accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2014. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $177 million , $169 million , and $112 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . As of December 31, 2014 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.9 billion and we had approximately $443 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, which expired in 2014. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $450 million and $301 million . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $4.5 billion as of December 31, 2014 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 9 for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. 23 Table of Contents We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, and borrowing available under our credit agreements will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” We recorded charges related to Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs, substantially all of which, $170 million, was recorded during the third quarter of 2014. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital media content where we record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, packaging supplies, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including sortation and delivery centers, and related equipment costs. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product, digital media content, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, as well as from expansion of digital offerings. The increase in 2014 was also impacted by Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods presented were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Gross profit $ 26,236 $ 20,271 $ 15,122 Gross margin 29.5 % 27.2 % 24.8 % Gross margin increased in 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to service sales increasing as a percentage of total sales. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. 28 Table of Contents We believe that income (loss) from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and service sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search programs, payroll and related expenses, and television advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content such as technology infrastructure, including AWS, expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, and initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services, as well as in technology infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments while operating at an ever increasing scale. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. Digital media content where we record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, is included in cost of sales. Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on technology infrastructure, including AWS, and increases in payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our initiatives to expand our ecosystem of digital products and services. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in these areas by increasing payroll and related expenses and adding technology infrastructure. For 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , we capitalized $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation), and $454 million (including $74 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized 29 Table of Contents amounts was $559 million , $451 million , and $327 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure, other technology, and operating costs incurred to support AWS are included in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $1.5 billion , $1.1 billion , and $833 million during 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . The increase in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to an increase in the number of stock-based compensation awards granted to existing and new employees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $133 million , $114 million , and $159 million during 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 76% in 2014 , increased 10% in 2013 , and decreased 22% in 2012 . Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $39 million , $38 million , and $40 million during 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary components of our interest expense are related to our long-term debt and capital and finance lease arrangements. Interest expense was $210 million , $141 million , and $92 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Our long-term debt was $8.3 billion and $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . Our other long-term liabilities were $7.4 billion and $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Note 7—Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(118) million , $(136) million , and $(80) million during 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign-currency gains (losses). Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $167 million , $161 million , and $428 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Our provision for income taxes in 2014 was higher than in 2013 primarily due to the increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. In 2013, our provision for income taxes was lower than in 2012 primarily due to a decline in the proportion of our losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions, and the 30 Table of Contents retroactive extension in 2013 of the U.S. federal research and development credit to 2012. In 2013, we recognized tax benefits for a greater proportion of losses for which we may not realize a tax benefit, primarily due to losses of certain foreign subsidiaries, as compared to 2012. The favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions was primarily related to our European operations. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2014, U.S. legislation was enacted providing a one year extension of accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property and the U.S. federal research and development credit through December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.9 billion and we had approximately $443 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, which expired in 2014. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 11-Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $37 million , $(71) million , and $(155) million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Details of the activity are provided below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Equity in earnings (loss) of LivingSocial: Impairment charges recorded by LivingSocial $ — $ (12 ) $ (170 ) Gain on existing equity interests, LivingSocial acquisitions — — 75 Operating and other earnings (losses) (1) 36 (58 ) (96 ) Total equity in earnings (loss) of LivingSocial 36 (70 ) (191 ) Other equity-method investment activity: Amazon dilution gains on LivingSocial investment — — 37 Other, net 1 (1 ) (1 ) Total other equity-method investment activity 1 (1 ) 36 Equity-method investment activity, net of tax $ 37 $ (71 ) $ (155 ) ___________________ (1) Includes a $65 million gain related to LivingSocial’s disposal of its Korean operations in the first quarter of 2014. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 Year Ended December 31, 2013 Year Ended December 31, 2012 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 89,624 $ (636 ) $ 88,988 $ 75,736 $ (1,284 ) $ 74,452 $ 61,947 $ (854 ) $ 61,093 Operating expenses 89,466 (656 ) 88,810 74,962 (1,255 ) 73,707 61,257 (840 ) 60,417 Income (loss) from operations 158 20 178 774 (29 ) 745 690 (14 ) 676 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 31 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of “Free cash flow,” operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flow, and ratios based on them, because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development,” which are included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 5,475 $ 4,180 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,893 ) (3,444 ) (3,785 ) Free cash flow $ 1,949 $ 2,031 $ 395 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,065 ) $ (4,276 ) $ (3,595 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 4,432 $ (539 ) $ 2,259 Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 5,475 $ 4,180 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,893 ) (3,444 ) (3,785 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (1,285 ) (775 ) (486 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (135 ) (5 ) (20 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 529 $ 1,251 $ (111 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,065 ) $ (4,276 ) $ (3,595 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 4,432 $ (539 ) $ 2,259 32 Table of Contents Free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been acquired with cash. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 5,475 $ 4,180 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,893 ) (3,444 ) (3,785 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (4,008 ) (1,867 ) (802 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (135 ) (5 ) (20 ) Free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases $ (2,194 ) $ 159 $ (427 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,065 ) $ (4,276 ) $ (3,595 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 4,432 $ (539 ) $ 2,259 All of these free cash flow measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flow do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expenses is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on January 29, 2015 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 29, 2015 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, on which we pay interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2014 (in millions, except percentages): 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2014 Money market funds $ 10,718 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 10,718 $ 10,718 Weighted average interest rate 0.09 % — % — % — % — % — % 0.09 % Corporate debt securities 85 131 154 22 — — 392 401 Weighted average interest rate 1.05 % 1.05 % 1.48 % 1.65 % — % — % 1.25 % U.S. government and agency securities 1,865 342 156 19 1 — 2,383 2,406 Weighted average interest rate 0.33 % 0.79 % 1.11 % 1.91 % 2.17 % — % 0.46 % Asset backed securities 19 43 7 — — — 69 69 Weighted average interest rate 0.64 % 0.95 % 1.10 % — % — % — % 0.88 % Foreign government and agency securities 1 27 49 — — — 77 80 Weighted average interest rate 0.04 % 0.05 % — % — % — % — % 0.02 % Other securities 12 10 7 4 — — 33 33 Weighted average interest rate 0.48 % 1.01 % 1.23 % 0.57 % — % — % 0.81 % $ 12,700 $ 553 $ 373 $ 45 $ 1 $ — $ 13,672 Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ 13,707 As of December 31, 2014 , we had $9.9 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions): 0.65% Notes due on November 27, 2015 $ 750 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 $ 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 $ 1,250 2.60% Notes due on December 5, 2019 $ 1,000 3.30% Notes due on December 5, 2021 $ 1,000 3.80% Notes due on December 5, 2024 $ 1,250 4.80% Notes due on December 5, 2034 $ 1,250 4.95% Notes due on December 5, 2044 $ 1,500 34 Table of Contents The fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $10.0 billion as of December 31, 2014 . Foreign Exchange Risk During 2014 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 38% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally focused websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca and www.amazon.com.mx (which are included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2014 , International segment revenues decreased $580 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2014 , of $5.4 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $270 million, $535 million, and $1.1 billion. All investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2014 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $145 million, $310 million, and $700 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2014 , our recorded basis in equity investments was $209 million. These investments primarily relate to equity-method and cost-method investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 35 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 37 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 38 Consolidated Statements of Operations 39 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 40 Consolidated Balance Sheets 41 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 42 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43 36 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2014 and 2013 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 , based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated January 29, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 29, 2015 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 8,658 $ 8,084 $ 5,269 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) (241 ) 274 (39 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization 4,746 3,253 2,159 Stock-based compensation 1,497 1,134 833 Other operating expense (income), net 129 114 154 Losses (gains) on sales of marketable securities, net (3 ) 1 (9 ) Other expense (income), net 62 166 253 Deferred income taxes (316 ) (156 ) (265 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (6 ) (78 ) (429 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (1,193 ) (1,410 ) (999 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (1,039 ) (846 ) (861 ) Accounts payable 1,759 1,888 2,070 Accrued expenses and other 706 736 1,038 Additions to unearned revenue 4,433 2,691 1,796 Amortization of previously unearned revenue (3,692 ) (2,292 ) (1,521 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 6,842 5,475 4,180 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (4,893 ) (3,444 ) (3,785 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (979 ) (312 ) (745 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments 3,349 2,306 4,237 Purchases of marketable securities and other investments (2,542 ) (2,826 ) (3,302 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (5,065 ) (4,276 ) (3,595 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 6 78 429 Common stock repurchased — — (960 ) Proceeds from long-term debt and other 6,359 394 3,378 Repayments of long-term debt (513 ) (231 ) (82 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (1,285 ) (775 ) (486 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (135 ) (5 ) (20 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 4,432 (539 ) 2,259 Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (310 ) (86 ) (29 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,899 574 2,815 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 14,557 $ 8,658 $ 8,084 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 91 $ 97 $ 31 Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) 177 169 112 Property and equipment acquired under capital leases 4,008 1,867 802 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit leases 920 877 29 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net product sales $ 70,080 $ 60,903 $ 51,733 Net service sales 18,908 13,549 9,360 Total net sales 88,988 74,452 61,093 Operating expenses (1): Cost of sales 62,752 54,181 45,971 Fulfillment 10,766 8,585 6,419 Marketing 4,332 3,133 2,408 Technology and content 9,275 6,565 4,564 General and administrative 1,552 1,129 896 Other operating expense (income), net 133 114 159 Total operating expenses 88,810 73,707 60,417 Income from operations 178 745 676 Interest income 39 38 40 Interest expense (210 ) (141 ) (92 ) Other income (expense), net (118 ) (136 ) (80 ) Total non-operating income (expense) (289 ) (239 ) (132 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (111 ) 506 544 Provision for income taxes (167 ) (161 ) (428 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 37 (71 ) (155 ) Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 274 $ (39 ) Basic earnings per share $ (0.52 ) $ 0.60 $ (0.09 ) Diluted earnings per share $ (0.52 ) $ 0.59 $ (0.09 ) Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 462 457 453 Diluted 462 465 453 _____________ (1)    Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Fulfillment $ 375 $ 294 $ 212 Marketing 125 88 61 Technology and content 804 603 434 General and administrative 193 149 126 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 274 $ (39 ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $(3), $(20), and $(30) (325 ) 63 76 Net change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $1, $3, and $(3) 2 (10 ) 8 Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $(1), $(1), and $3 (3 ) 1 (7 ) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (1 ) (9 ) 1 Total other comprehensive income (loss) (326 ) 54 77 Comprehensive income (loss) $ (567 ) $ 328 $ 38 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2014 2013 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 14,557 $ 8,658 Marketable securities 2,859 3,789 Inventories 8,299 7,411 Accounts receivable, net and other 5,612 4,767 Total current assets 31,327 24,625 Property and equipment, net 16,967 10,949 Goodwill 3,319 2,655 Other assets 2,892 1,930 Total assets $ 54,505 $ 40,159 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 16,459 $ 15,133 Accrued expenses and other 9,807 6,688 Unearned revenue 1,823 1,159 Total current liabilities 28,089 22,980 Long-term debt 8,265 3,191 Other long-term liabilities 7,410 4,242 Commitments and contingencies (Note 8) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 488 and 483 Outstanding shares — 465 and 459 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (1,837 ) (1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 11,135 9,573 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (511 ) (185 ) Retained earnings 1,949 2,190 Total stockholders’ equity 10,741 9,746 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 54,505 $ 40,159 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2012 455 $ 5 $ (877 ) $ 6,990 $ (316 ) $ 1,955 $ 7,757 Net loss — — — — — (39 ) (39 ) Other comprehensive income — — — — 77 — 77 Exercise of common stock options 4 — — 8 — — 8 Repurchase of common stock (5 ) — (960 ) — — — (960 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 429 — — 429 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 854 — — 854 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 66 — — 66 Balance as of December 31, 2012 454 5 (1,837 ) 8,347 (239 ) 1,916 8,192 Net income — — — — — 274 274 Other comprehensive income — — — — 54 — 54 Exercise of common stock options 5 — — 4 — — 4 Repurchase of common stock — — — — — — — Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 73 — — 73 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 1,149 — — 1,149 Balance as of December 31, 2013 459 5 (1,837 ) 9,573 (185 ) 2,190 9,746 Net loss — — — — — (241 ) (241 ) Other comprehensive loss — — — — (326 ) — (326 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 2 — — 2 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 6 — — 6 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 1,510 — — 1,510 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 44 — — 44 Balance as of December 31, 2014 465 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 11,135 $ (511 ) $ 1,949 $ 10,741 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 42 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our two geographic segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. See “Note 12—Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation of “Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities” on our consolidated statements of cash flows and components of the provision for income taxes in “Note 11—Income Taxes.” Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards of 17 million and 15 million in 2014 and 2012, were excluded as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 462 457 453 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards — 8 — Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 462 465 453 43 Table of Contents Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of our digital devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Echo, and Fire phones, are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud storage and free trial memberships to other services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Instant Video, Prime Music, Prime Photo, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we will update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Amazon’s electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $147 million , $167 million , and $198 million as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Additions to the allowance were $1.1 billion , $907 million , and $702 million , and deductions to the allowance were $1.1 billion , $938 million , and $659 million as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Total net sales.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital media content where we record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, packaging supplies, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including sortation and delivery centers, and related equipment costs. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction 44 Table of Contents costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory or cost of services. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $3.3 billion , $2.4 billion , and $2.0 billion in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock and the fair value of stock options are estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated 45 Table of Contents estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee classification, economic environment, and historical experience. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of intangible asset amortization expense and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency losses of $(127) million , $(137) million , and $(95) million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , and realized gains and losses on marketable securities sales of $3 million , $(1) million , and $10 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2014 . Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2014 , or December 31, 2013 . 46 Table of Contents As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock primarily in private companies. We record these assets in “Other assets” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Equity warrant assets are classified as Level 3 assets, and the balances and related activity for our equity warrant assets were not significant for the periods ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , vendor receivables, net, were $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion , and customer receivables, net, were $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion . We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $190 million , $153 million , and $116 million as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Additions to the allowance were $225 million , $172 million , and $136 million , and deductions to the allowance were $188 million , $135 million , and $102 million as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , we capitalized $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation), and $454 million (including $74 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $559 million , $451 million , and $327 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, financing, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. 47 Table of Contents Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the periods presented. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2014 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; acquired digital media content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; intellectual property rights, net of amortization; and equity warrant assets. Content Costs We obtain video and music content to be made available to Prime members through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions and generally have terms from one to five years with fixed payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee per title and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset as cost of sales on a straight-line basis over each title’s contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from six months to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. The production costs of internally developed content are capitalized only if persuasive evidence exists that the production will generate revenue. Because we have limited history to support the economic benefits of our content, we have generally expensed such costs as incurred. As we develop more experience or otherwise obtain the necessary evidence that future revenue will be earned through licensing or Prime membership activity, a portion of future production costs may be capitalized. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents,” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” 48 Table of Contents Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of our investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities, and goodwill, is included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of the related intangible assets, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Our share of the net income or loss of our equity - method investees includes operating and non-operating gains and charges, which can have a significant impact on our reported equity-method investment activity and the carrying value of those investments. In the event that net losses of the investee reduce our equity-method investment carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee, not accounted for under the equity method, are at-risk even if we have not committed to provide financial support to the investee. We regularly evaluate these investments, which are not carried at fair value, for other-than-temporary impairment. We also consider whether our equity-method investments generate sufficient cash flows from their operating or financing activities to meet their obligations and repay their liabilities when they come due. We record purchases, including incremental purchases, of shares in equity-method investees at cost. Reductions in our ownership percentage of an investee, including through dilution, are generally valued at fair value, with the difference between fair value and our recorded cost reflected as a gain or loss in our equity-method investment activity. In the event we no longer have the ability to exercise significant influence over an equity-method investee, we would discontinue accounting for the investment under the equity method. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in “Marketable securities” in our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2014 or 2013 . Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. 49 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, Italy, Spain, Brazil, India, Mexico, Australia, and the Netherlands . Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded losses of $98 million , $84 million , and $95 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption prohibited. We are currently evaluating the impact this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements. 50 Table of Contents Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2014 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 4,155 $ — $ — $ 4,155 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 10,718 — — 10,718 Equity securities 2 2 — 4 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 80 — — 80 U.S. government and agency securities 2,407 1 (2 ) 2,406 Corporate debt securities 401 1 (1 ) 401 Asset-backed securities 69 — — 69 Other fixed income securities 33 — — 33 $ 17,865 $ 4 $ (3 ) $ 17,866 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (450 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 17,416 December 31, 2013 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 3,008 $ — $ — $ 3,008 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 5,914 — — 5,914 Equity securities 3 1 — 4 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 757 2 (1 ) 758 U.S. government and agency securities 2,224 1 (3 ) 2,222 Corporate debt securities 739 3 (1 ) 741 Asset-backed securities 65 — — 65 Other fixed income securities 36 — — 36 $ 12,746 $ 7 $ (5 ) $ 12,748 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (301 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 12,447 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions. We classify cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies.” 51 Table of Contents The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Realized gains $ 8 $ 6 $ 20 Realized losses 5 7 10 The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2014 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 12,553 $ 12,552 Due after one year through five years 798 799 Due after five years through ten years 132 132 Due after ten years 224 224 Total $ 13,707 $ 13,707 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. Note 3—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 7,150 $ 4,584 Equipment and internal-use software (2) 14,213 9,274 Other corporate assets 304 231 Construction in progress 1,063 720 Gross property and equipment 22,730 14,809 Total accumulated depreciation (1) 5,763 3,860 Total property and equipment, net $ 16,967 $ 10,949 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. (2) Includes internal-use software of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $3.6 billion , $2.5 billion , and $1.7 billion , which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $1.5 billion , $826 million , and $510 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $7.9 billion and $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $3.3 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $1.4 billion and $578 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $87 million and $22 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . 52 Table of Contents Cash paid for interest on capital and finance leases was $86 million , $41 million , and $51 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Note 4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2014 Acquisition Activity On September 25, 2014 , we acquired Twitch Interactive, Inc. (“Twitch”) for approximately $842 million in cash, as adjusted for the assumption of options and other items. During 2014, we acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $20 million . We acquired Twitch because of its user community and the live streaming experience it provides. The primary reasons for our other 2014 acquisitions were to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 813 Stock options assumed 44 Indemnification holdback 5 $ 862 Allocation Goodwill $ 707 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 23 Contract-based 1 Technology-based 33 Customer-related 173 230 Property and equipment 16 Deferred tax assets 64 Other assets acquired 34 Deferred tax liabilities (88 ) Other liabilities assumed (101 ) $ 862 ___________________ (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and five years, with a weighted-average amortization period of five years. The fair value of assumed stock options of $39 million , estimated using the Black-Scholes model, will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Subsequent to September 30, 2014, we made minor measurement period adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation that impacted goodwill, customer-related intangible assets, property and equipment, and deferred taxes and are reflected in the table above. We have not retrospectively adjusted our previously reported consolidated financial statements. 53 Table of Contents Pro Forma Financial Information – 2014 Acquisition Activity (unaudited) The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating loss of the companies acquired was $40 million and $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The following pro forma financial information presents our results as if the current year acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of 2013 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 Net sales $ 89,041 $ 74,505 Net income (loss) $ (287 ) $ 180 2013 Acquisition Activity In 2013, we acquired several companies in cash transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $195 million , resulting in goodwill of $103 million and acquired intangible assets of $83 million . The primary reasons for these acquisitions were to expand our customer base and sales channels and to obtain certain technologies to be used in product development. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2012 Acquisition Activity In May 2012, we acquired Kiva Systems, Inc. (“Kiva”) for a purchase price of $678 million . The primary reason for this acquisition was to improve fulfillment center productivity. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of this acquisition was allocated as follows (in millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 613 Stock options assumed 65 $ 678 Allocation Goodwill $ 560 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 5 Contract-based 3 Technology-based 168 Customer-related 17 193 Property and equipment 9 Deferred tax assets 34 Other assets acquired 41 Deferred tax liabilities (81 ) Other liabilities assumed (78 ) $ 678 ___________________ (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between four and 10 years, with a weighted-average amortization period of five years. The fair value of assumed stock options was estimated using the Black-Scholes model. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included 54 Table of Contents within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effect of this acquisition was not material to our consolidated results of operations. Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily related to expected improvements in sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers and fulfillment center productivity, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2014 and 2013 by segment (in millions): North America International Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2013 $ 1,937 $ 615 $ 2,552 New acquisitions 99 4 103 Other adjustments (1) (3 ) 3 — Goodwill - December 31, 2013 2,033 622 2,655 New acquisitions (2) 553 162 715 Other adjustments (1) (2 ) (49 ) (51 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2014 $ 2,584 $ 735 $ 3,319 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. (2) Primarily includes the goodwill of Twitch. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Marketing-related 5.3 $ 457 $ (199 ) $ 258 $ 429 $ (156 ) $ 273 Contract-based 2.2 172 (125 ) 47 173 (110 ) 63 Technology- and content-based 3.5 370 (129 ) 241 278 (74 ) 204 Customer-related 2.5 535 (317 ) 218 368 (263 ) 105 Acquired intangibles (2) 3.5 $ 1,534 $ (770 ) $ 764 $ 1,248 $ (603 ) $ 645 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and 10 years. 55 Table of Contents Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $181 million , $168 million , and $163 million in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2014 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 $ 202 2016 185 2017 161 2018 106 2019 79 Thereafter 31 $ 764 Note 5—EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTS LivingSocial’s summarized condensed financial information, as provided to us by LivingSocial, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Statement of Operations: Revenue $ 231 $ 302 $ 347 Gross profit 194 253 280 Operating expenses 296 282 367 Operating loss from continuing operations (102 ) (29 ) (87 ) Net loss from continuing operations (73 ) (16 ) (79 ) Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (1) 173 (156 ) (574 ) Net income (loss) $ 100 $ (172 ) $ (653 ) ___________________ (1) In January 2014, LivingSocial completed the sale of its Korean operations for approximately $260 million and, in the first quarter of 2014, recognized a gain on disposal of $205 million , net of tax. The statement of operations information above has been recast to present the Korean operations, and certain other operations, as discontinued operations. December 31, 2014 2013 Balance Sheet: Current assets $ 163 $ 182 Non-current assets 29 61 Current liabilities 137 301 Non-current liabilities 34 33 Redeemable stock 366 315 Balance sheet financial information as of December 31, 2013 included $146 million in assets and $122 million in liabilities that LivingSocial classified as held for sale for its Korean operations. As of December 31, 2014 , our total investment in LivingSocial is approximately 31% of voting stock and has a book value of $75 million . 56 Table of Contents Note 6—LONG-TERM DEBT In December 2014 and November 2012, we issued $6.0 billion and $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes as described in the table below (collectively, the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , the unamortized discount on the Notes was $96 million and $23 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion, of $881 million and $967 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 0.65% Notes due on November 27, 2015 (1) $ 750 $ 750 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 (1) 1,000 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.60% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 — 3.30% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 — 3.80% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 — 4.80% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 — 4.95% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 — Other long-term debt 881 967 Total debt 9,881 3,967 Less current portion of long-term debt (1,520 ) (753 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 8,361 $ 3,214 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rates of the 2015, 2017, and 2022 Notes were 0.84% , 1.38% , and 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December . Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the Notes are used for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $9.1 billion and $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , which is based on quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt as of those dates. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted average interest rate of 5.5% as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 . As of December 31, 2014 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 $ 1,520 2016 36 2017 1,037 2018 38 2019 1,000 Thereafter 6,250 $ 9,881 On September 5, 2014 , we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion . The Credit Agreement has a term of two years , but it may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders . The initial interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus 0.625% , under our current credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded this rate could increase to as much as LIBOR plus 1.00% . There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2014 . 57 Table of Contents Note 7—OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 3,026 $ 1,435 Long-term finance lease obligations 1,198 555 Construction liabilities 467 385 Tax contingencies 510 457 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 1,021 571 Other 1,188 839 Total other long-term liabilities $ 7,410 $ 4,242 Capital and Finance Leases Certain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 Gross capital lease obligations $ 5,182 Less imputed interest (143 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 5,039 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (2,013 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 3,026 We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liabilities.” As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 Gross finance lease obligations $ 1,629 Less imputed interest (364 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 1,265 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (67 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 1,198 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax Contingencies We have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See “Note 11—Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. 58 Table of Contents Note 8—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $961 million , $759 million , and $561 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2014 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thereafter Total Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and interest $ 1,842 $ 323 $ 1,322 $ 310 $ 1,272 $ 9,403 $ 14,472 Capital leases, including interest 2,060 1,727 1,030 178 89 98 5,182 Finance lease obligations, including interest 110 112 115 117 119 1,056 1,629 Operating leases 868 791 728 634 549 2,343 5,913 Unconditional purchase obligations (1) 489 435 351 118 38 3 1,434 Other commitments (2) (3) 928 333 160 140 90 845 2,496 Total commitments $ 6,297 $ 3,721 $ 3,706 $ 1,497 $ 2,157 $ 13,748 $ 31,126 ___________________ (1) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and media content liabilities associated with long-term media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (3) Excludes $710 million of tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $602 million and $482 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt relating to certain international operations, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions. Suppliers During 2014 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon.com International Sales, Inc., Amazon EU Sarl, Amazon.de GmbH, Amazon.com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contested Austro-Mechana’s claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. We lost this appeal and in March 2011 commenced an appeal in the Supreme Court of Austria. In October 2011, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case to the 59 Table of Contents European Court of Justice (ECJ). In July 2013, the European Court of Justice ruled that EU law does not preclude application of the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back to the Austrian Supreme Court for further proceedings. In October 2013, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back to the Commercial Court of Vienna for further fact finding to determine whether the tariff on blank digital media meets the conditions set by the ECJ. In December 2012, a German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte (ZPU), filed a complaint against Amazon EU Sarl, Amazon Media EU Sarl, Amazon Services Europe Sarl, Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings Sarl in the District Court of Luxembourg seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.de retail website to customers located in Germany. In January 2013, a Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed a complaint against Amazon EU Sarl in the Court of First Instance of Brussels, Belgium, seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.fr retail website to customers located in Belgium. In November 2013, the Belgian court ruled in favor of AUVIBEL and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Payments, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes patents owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover an “Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce And Business Automation System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,115,690 and 6,343,275) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In February 2011, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patent. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In April 2011, Walker Digital LLC filed several complaints against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaints allege that we infringe several of the plaintiff’s U.S. patents by, among other things, providing “cross benefits” to customers through our promotions (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470 and 7,827,056), using a customer’s identified original product to offer a substitute product (U.S. Patent No. 7,236,942), using our product recommendations and personalization features to offer complementary products together (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,601,036 and 6,138,105), enabling customers to subscribe to a delivery schedule for products they routinely use at reduced prices (U.S. Patent No. 5,970,470), and offering personalized advertising based on customers’ preferences identified using a data pattern (U.S. Patent No. 7,933,893). Another complaint, filed in the same court in October 2011, alleges that we infringe plaintiff’s U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 by offering personalized advertising based on customer preferences that associate data with resource locators. Another complaint, filed in the same court in February 2012, alleges that we infringe plaintiff’s U.S. Patent No. 8,112,359 by using product information received from customers to identify and offer substitute products using a manufacturer database. In January 2013, the plaintiff filed another complaint in the same court alleging that we infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,381,582 by allowing customers to make local payments for products ordered online. All of the complaints seek monetary damages, interest, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In March 2013, the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,236,942 and 7,933,893 were voluntarily dismissed with prejudice. In April 2013, the case asserting U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 was stayed pending final resolution of the reexamination of that patent. In June 2013, the court granted defendants’ motions to dismiss the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359 for lack of standing. In July 2013, we filed motions seeking entry of a final judgment dismissing those claims with prejudice and for attorneys’ fees, and plaintiff filed notices of appeal from the June 2013 order granting the motions to dismiss. In October 2013, the court ruled that its dismissals are with prejudice, and Walker has appealed those rulings. In March 2014, the court stayed the case asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 6,601,036 and 6,138,105 pending the appeal of the cases asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359. In September 2014, the court dismissed the matter asserting U.S. Patent No. 6,381,582 with prejudice. In January 2015, the court dismissed with prejudice the complaint asserting U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359. We dispute the remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In March 2012, OIP Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleged, among other things, that certain aspects of our pricing methods infringed U.S. Patent No. 7,970,713, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Automatic Pricing In Electronic Commerce.” The complaint sought three times an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. In September 2012, the court invalidated the plaintiff’s patent and dismissed the case with prejudice. In September 2012, OIP appealed the judgment of the district court to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which, in November 2012, stayed all proceedings pending its decision in a separate case that raises a related question of law and, in June 2013, continued the stay pending a decision by the United States Supreme Court. In July 2014, the court of appeals lifted the stay. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In June 2012, Hand Held Products, Inc., a subsidiary of Honeywell, filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., AMZN Mobile, LLC, AmazonFresh, LLC, A9.com, Inc., A9 Innovations, LLC, and Quidsi, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of mobile barcode reader applications, 60 Table of Contents including Amazon Mobile, Amazon Price Check, Flow, and AmazonFresh, infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,015,088, entitled “Decoding Of Real Time Video Imaging.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and an injunction. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2012, Norman Blagman filed a purported class-action complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for copyright infringement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. sells digital music in our Amazon MP3 Store obtained from defendant Orchard Enterprises and other unnamed “digital music aggregators” without obtaining mechanical licenses for the compositions embodied in that music. The complaint seeks certification as a class action, statutory damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In August 2012, an Australian quasi-government entity named Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the sale of “products which are operable according to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (“IEEE”) 802.11a, g, n, and/or draft n standards” infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,487,069, entitled “Wireless LAN.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2012, Lexington Luminance LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Digital Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain light-emitting diodes in certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,936,851, entitled “Semiconductor Light-Emitting Device And Method For Manufacturing Same.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and an injunction or, in the absence of an injunction, a compulsory ongoing royalty. In March 2014, the Court invalidated the plaintiff’s patent and dismissed the case with prejudice, and the plaintiff appealed the judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In May 2013, Adaptix, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,454,212 and 6,947,748, both entitled “OFDMA With Adaptive Subcarrier-Cluster Configuration And Selective Loading.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. In March 2014, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2013, Telebuyer, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon Web Services, LLC, and VADATA, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain features used on our retail website—including high resolution video and still images, user-indicated areas of interest, targeted follow-up communications, vendor proposals, on-line chat, Gold Box and Lightning Deals, and vendor ratings—infringe seven U.S. patents: Nos. 6,323,894, 7,835,508, 7,835,509, 7,839,984, 8,059,796, and 8,098,272, all entitled “Commercial Product Routing System With Video Vending Capability,” and 8,315,364, entitled “Commercial Product Routing System With Mobile Wireless And Video Vending Capability.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief. In September 2013, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In August 2013, Cellular Communications Equipment, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos.: 6,819,923, entitled “Method For Communication Of Neighbor Cell Information”; 7,215,962, entitled “Method For An Intersystem Connection Handover”; 7,941,174, entitled “Method For Multicode Transmission By A Subscriber Station”; and 8,055,820 entitled “Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating A Buffer Status Reporting Format Based On Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions.” In March 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint that alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,055,820, entitled “Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating A Buffer Status Reporting Format Based On Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions.” The amended complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and interest. In January 2015, the court dismissed with prejudice the claim of infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,215,962. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in August 2013, a number of complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries failed to compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting in security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. In August 2013, Busk v. Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, and Vance v. Amazon.com, Inc., Zappos.com Inc., another affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In September 2013, Allison v. Amazon.com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, and Johnson v. Amazon.com, Inc. and an 61 Table of Contents affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In October 2013, Davis v. Amazon.com, Inc., an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport to represent a nationwide class of certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and/or state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees in states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. We have been named in several other similar cases. In December 2014, the Supreme Court ruled in Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening is not compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. We dispute any remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In September 2013, Personalized Media Communications, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of certain Kindle devices, Kindle apps and/or Amazon.com, Inc.’s website to purchase and receive electronic media infringes nine U.S. Patents: Nos. 5,887,243, 7,801,304, 7,805,749, 7,940,931, 7,769,170, 7,864,956, 7,827,587, 8,046,791, and 7,883,252, all entitled “Signal Processing Apparatus And Methods.” The complaint also alleges, among other things, that CloudFront, S3, and EC2 web services infringe three of those patents, Nos. 7,801,304, 7,864,956, and 7,827,587. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In October 2013, Mobile Telecommunications Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our network operation centers and our mobile devices, such as Kindle Fire models based on the Android operating system that provide XMPP-compliant messaging services and applications, infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,809,428, entitled “Method And Device For Processing Undelivered Data Messages In A Two-Way Wireless Communications System.” The complaint also alleges that Amazon’s mobile devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,754,946, entitled “Nationwide Communication System,” and that Amazon.com, Inc. infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,786,748, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Giving Notification Of Express Mail Delivery,” by providing tracking and notification services to customers who purchase products directly from Amazon.com, Inc. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In October 2013, Tuxis Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “the Amazon.com website” with “recommendation features” infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,055,513, entitled “Methods And Apparatus For Intelligent Selection Of Goods And Services In Telephonic And Electronic Commerce.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2013, Memory Integrity, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,296,121, entitled “Reducing Probe Traffic In Multiprocessor Systems.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, costs, expenses, and interest. In December 2014, the case was stayed pending resolution of review petitions filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2013, Vantage Point Technology, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Kindle devices with a Cortex A-9 core processor and OMAP 4430 chipset, Kindle device HD tablets with a Cortex A-9 core processor and OMAP 4470 chipset, and Kindle devices with a Cortex A-8 core processor and Freescale MX50 family chipset infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,463,750, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Translating Virtual Addresses In A Data Processing System Having Multiple Instruction Pipelines And Separate TLB’s For Each Pipeline.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2013, Appistry, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 8,200,746, entitled “System And Method For Territory-Based Processing Of Information,” and  8,341,209, entitled “System And Method For Processing Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 62 Table of Contents In December 2013, ContentGuard Holdings, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain digital rights management software used by various Kindle Fire software applications, including the Kindle Reader and Amazon Instant Video, infringe seven U.S. Patents:  Nos. 6,963,859, entitled “Content Rendering Repository”; 7,523,072, entitled “System For Controlling The Distribution And Use Of Digital Works”; 7,269,576, entitled “Content Rendering Apparatus”; 8,370,956, entitled “System And Method For Rendering Digital Content In Accordance With Usage Rights Information”; 8,393,007, entitled “System And Method For Distributing Digital Content In Accordance With Usage Rights Information”; 7,225,160, entitled “Digital Works Having Usage Rights And Method For Creating The Same”; and 8,583,556, entitled “Method For Providing A Digital Asset For Distribution.” In January 2014, ContentGuard filed an amended complaint that, among other things, added HTC Corporation and HTC America as defendants. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In March 2014, Kaavo, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Web Services’ Elastic Beanstalk and CloudFormation infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,271,974, entitled “Cloud Computing Lifecycle Management For N-Tier Applications.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of monetary damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In April 2014, Spansion LLC filed complaints for patent infringement against Amazon.com, Inc. in both the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the United States International Trade Commission. The complaints allege, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 6,246,611, entitled “System For Erasing A Memory Cell,” and 6,744,666, entitled “Method And System To Minimize Page Programming Time For Flash Memory Devices.” The district court complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, interest, and injunctive relief. The International Trade Commission complaint seeks an exclusion order preventing the importation of certain Kindle devices into the United States, as well as a cease-and-desist order barring sale of certain Kindle devices after importation. In June 2014, the district court case was stayed pending resolution of the International Trade Commission action. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In June 2014, SimpleAir, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Device Messaging and Simple Notification Service infringe U.S Patent Nos. 7,035,914, 8,090,803, 8,572,279, 8,601,154, and 8,639,838, all of which are entitled “System and Method for Transmission of Data.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, pre-judgment interest, costs, attorneys’ fees, enhanced damages, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2014, Smartflash LLC and Smartflash Technologies Limited filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, AMZN Mobile, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Audible, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, Audible Audiobooks, the Amazon Mobile Ad Network, certain Kindle and Fire devices, Kindle e-bookstore, Amazon’s proprietary Android operating system, and the servers involved in operating Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, the Fire TV app, Audible Audiobooks, Cloud Drive, Cloud Player, Amazon Web Services, and Amazon Mobile Ad Network infringe seven related U.S. Patents: Nos. 7,334,720; 7,942,317; 8,033,458; 8,061,598; 8,118,221; 8,336,772; and 8,794,516, all entitled “Data Storage and Access Systems.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. The outcomes of our legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. In addition, for some matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, an estimate of the amount of loss or range of loss is not possible and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. See also “Note 11—Income Taxes.” 63 Table of Contents Note 9—STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 483 million , 476 million , and 470 million , as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock with no fixed expiration. We have $763 million remaining under the $2.0 billion repurchase program. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock options outstanding, which were primarily obtained through acquisitions, totaled 0.4 million, 0.2 million and 0.4 million, as of December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . The after-tax compensation expense for stock options was not material for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , as well as the total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options, and the related tax benefits. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2012 13.1 $ 143 Units granted 8.2 209 Units vested (4.2 ) 110 Units forfeited (1.7 ) 168 Outstanding as of December 31, 2012 15.4 184 Units granted 7.2 283 Units vested (4.5 ) 160 Units forfeited (1.8 ) 209 Outstanding as of December 31, 2013 16.3 233 Units granted 8.5 328 Units vested (5.1 ) 202 Units forfeited (2.3 ) 264 Outstanding as of December 31, 2014 17.4 $ 285 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2014 , is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 5.9 6.1 3.4 1.7 0.2 0.1 17.4 64 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2014 , there was $2.2 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted-average recognition period of 1.2 years. During 2014 and 2013 , the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion . As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.2 million and 0.1 million shares of common stock in 2014 and 2013 . Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued, and recorded as stock-based compensation expense. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance As of December 31, 2014 , common stock available for future issuance to employees is 137 million shares. Note 10—ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Changes in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive loss for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 are as follows (in millions): Foreign currency translation adjustments Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Total Balances as of January 1, 2012 $ (326 ) $ 10 $ (316 ) Other comprehensive income 76 1 77 Balances as of December 31, 2012 (250 ) 11 (239 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 63 (9 ) 54 Balances as of December 31, 2013 (187 ) 2 (185 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (325 ) (1 ) (326 ) Balances as of December 31, 2014 $ (512 ) $ 1 $ (511 ) Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net of their related income tax effects. Note 11—INCOME TAXES In 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , we recorded net tax provisions of $167 million , $161 million , and $428 million . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2014, U.S. legislation was enacted providing a one year extension of accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property and the U.S. federal research and development credit through 2014. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $177 million , $169 million , and $112 million for 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Current taxes: U.S. Federal $ 214 $ 99 $ 528 U.S. State 65 45 34 International 204 173 131 Current taxes 483 317 693 Deferred taxes: U.S. Federal (125 ) (114 ) (129 ) U.S. State (11 ) (19 ) (27 ) International (180 ) (23 ) (109 ) Deferred taxes (316 ) (156 ) (265 ) Provision for income taxes, net $ 167 $ 161 $ 428 65 Table of Contents U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 U.S. $ 292 $ 704 $ 882 International (403 ) (198 ) (338 ) Income (loss) before income taxes $ (111 ) $ 506 $ 544 The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate $ (39 ) $ 177 $ 191 Effect of: Impact of foreign tax differential 136 (41 ) 172 State taxes, net of federal benefits 29 14 1 Tax credits (85 ) (84 ) (24 ) Nondeductible compensation 117 86 72 Domestic production activities deduction (20 ) (11 ) — Other, net 29 20 16 Total $ 167 $ 161 $ 428 Our provision for income taxes in 2014 was higher than in 2013 primarily due to the increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. In 2013, our provision for income taxes was lower than in 2012 primarily due to a decline in the proportion of our losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions, and the retroactive extension in 2013 of the U.S. federal research and development credit to 2012. In 2013, we recognized tax benefits for a greater proportion of losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of certain foreign subsidiaries, as compared to 2012. The favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions was primarily related to our European operations. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2014. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. 66 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 (1) 2013 Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses U.S. - Federal/States (2) $ 357 $ 53 Net operating losses foreign (3) 669 427 Accrued liabilities, reserves, & other expenses 780 590 Stock-based compensation 534 396 Deferred revenue 156 249 Assets held for investment 154 164 Other items 242 177 Tax credits (4) 115 107 Total gross deferred tax assets 3,007 2,163 Less valuation allowance (5) (901 ) (698 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 2,106 1,465 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation & amortization (1,609 ) (1,021 ) Acquisition related intangible assets (195 ) (201 ) Other items (31 ) (16 ) Net deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance $ 271 $ 227 ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits are presented net of tax contingencies. (2) Excluding $261 million and $81 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (3) Excluding $2 million and $2 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (4) Excluding $268 million and $227 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , related to tax credits that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (5) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. As of December 31, 2014 , our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.9 billion , $2.5 billion , and $1.1 billion . The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state tax law. If not utilized, a portion of the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2020 , 2015 , and 2015 , respectively. As of December 31, 2014 , our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $506 million . If not utilized, a portion of the tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in 2017 . The Company’s consolidated balance sheets reflect deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards excluding amounts resulting from excess stock-based compensation. Amounts related to excess stock-based compensation are accounted for as an increase to additional paid-in capital if and when realized through a reduction in income taxes payable. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of 67 Table of Contents tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 407 $ 294 $ 229 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 351 78 91 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (50 ) (18 ) (47 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 20 54 26 Audit settlements paid (16 ) (1 ) (4 ) Lapse of statute of limitations (2 ) — (1 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 710 $ 407 $ 294 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2014 , we had $710 million of tax contingencies, of which $604 million , if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $41 million and $33 million . Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 was $8 million , $8 million , and $1 million . We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year 2005 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. As previously disclosed, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for transactions undertaken in the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $1.5 billion , subject to interest. To date, we have not resolved this matter administratively and are currently contesting it in U.S. Tax Court. We continue to disagree with these IRS positions and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, Amazon could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by the French Tax Administration (“FTA”) for calendar year 2006 or thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes. While we have not yet received a final assessment from the FTA, in September 2012, we received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years 2006 through 2010 relating to the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions. The notices propose additional French tax of approximately $250 million , including interest and penalties through the date of the assessment. We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to contest it vigorously. We plan to pursue all available administrative remedies at the FTA, and if we are not able to resolve this matter with the FTA, we plan to pursue judicial remedies. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments in respect of these particular jurisdictions for 2003 and thereafter. We expect the total amount of tax contingencies will grow in 2015 . In addition, changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements may or may not result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on tax filings in years through 2014 . The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes. 68 Table of Contents Note 12—SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We expect to change our reportable segments to report North America, International, and AWS, beginning with the first quarter of 2015. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), net” to our segment operating results. Our “Technology and content” costs included in our segments are primarily based on the geographic location of where the costs are incurred, the majority of these costs are incurred in the U.S. and included in our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based websites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from our U.S. and Canadian websites. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 North America Net sales $ 55,469 $ 44,517 $ 34,813 Segment operating expenses (1) 53,364 42,631 33,221 Segment operating income $ 2,105 $ 1,886 $ 1,592 International Net sales $ 33,519 $ 29,935 $ 26,280 Segment operating expenses (1) 33,816 29,828 26,204 Segment operating income (loss) $ (297 ) $ 107 $ 76 Consolidated Net sales $ 88,988 $ 74,452 $ 61,093 Segment operating expenses (1) 87,180 72,459 59,425 Segment operating income 1,808 1,993 1,668 Stock-based compensation (1,497 ) (1,134 ) (833 ) Other operating income (expense), net (133 ) (114 ) (159 ) Income from operations 178 745 676 Total non-operating income (expense) (289 ) (239 ) (132 ) Provision for income taxes (167 ) (161 ) (428 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 37 (71 ) (155 ) Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 274 $ (39 ) ___________________ (1) Represents operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense (income), net,” which are not allocated to segments. 69 Table of Contents We have aggregated our products and services into groups of similar products and services and provided the supplemental disclosure of net sales (in millions) below. We evaluate whether additional disclosure is appropriate when a product or service category begins to approach a significant level of net sales. For the periods presented, no individual product or service represented more than 10% of net sales. Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net Sales: Media $ 22,505 $ 21,716 $ 19,942 Electronics and other general merchandise 60,886 48,802 38,628 Other (1) 5,597 3,934 2,523 $ 88,988 $ 74,452 $ 61,093 ___________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Net sales generated from these internationally-focused websites are denominated in local functional currencies. Revenues are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed to foreign countries are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Germany $ 11,919 $ 10,535 $ 8,732 Japan 7,912 7,639 7,800 United Kingdom 8,341 7,291 6,478 Total assets, property and equipment, net, and total property and equipment additions, by geography, reconciled to consolidated amounts are (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 2012 North America Total assets $ 39,157 $ 26,108 $ 20,703 Property and equipment, net 13,163 8,447 5,481 Total property and equipment additions 7,464 4,837 3,348 International Total assets $ 15,348 $ 14,051 $ 11,852 Property and equipment, net 3,804 2,502 1,579 Total property and equipment additions 2,017 1,536 969 Consolidated Total assets $ 54,505 $ 40,159 $ 32,555 Property and equipment, net 16,967 10,949 7,060 Total property and equipment additions 9,481 6,373 4,317 Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net, in any single country was less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net. 70 Table of Contents Depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 North America $ 2,701 $ 1,863 $ 1,229 International 915 597 424 Consolidated $ 3,616 $ 2,460 $ 1,653 Note 13—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2014 and 2013 . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2014 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 29,328 $ 20,579 $ 19,340 $ 19,741 Income (loss) from operations 591 (544 ) (15 ) 146 Income (loss) before income taxes 429 (634 ) (27 ) 120 Benefit (provision) for income taxes (205 ) 205 (94 ) (73 ) Net income (loss) 214 (437 ) (126 ) 108 Basic earnings per share 0.46 (0.95 ) (0.27 ) 0.23 Diluted earnings per share 0.45 (0.95 ) (0.27 ) 0.23 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 464 463 461 460 Diluted 472 463 461 468 Year Ended December 31, 2013 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 25,587 $ 17,092 $ 15,704 $ 16,070 Income (loss) from operations 510 (25 ) 79 181 Income (loss) before income taxes 451 (43 ) 17 81 Benefit (provision) for income taxes (179 ) 12 (13 ) 18 Net income (loss) 239 (41 ) (7 ) 82 Basic earnings per share 0.52 (0.09 ) (0.02 ) 0.18 Diluted earnings per share 0.51 (0.09 ) (0.02 ) 0.18 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 458 457 456 455 Diluted 467 457 456 463 ___________________ (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. 71 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 34  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Our company-sponsored research and development expense is set forth within “Technology and content” in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements of Operations.” Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, an annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; and digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington. Additionally, we own and lease corporate office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, warehouse operations, data center, customer service, and other facilities, principally in North America, Europe, and Asia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 16 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 107,006 $ 88,988 $ 74,452 $ 61,093 $ 48,077 Income from operations $ 2,233 $ 178 $ 745 $ 676 $ 862 Net income (loss) $ 596 $ (241 ) $ 274 $ (39 ) $ 631 Basic earnings per share (1) $ 1.28 $ (0.52 ) $ 0.60 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.39 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.25 $ (0.52 ) $ 0.59 $ (0.09 ) $ 1.37 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 467 462 457 453 453 Diluted 477 462 465 453 461 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,920 $ 6,842 $ 5,475 $ 4,180 $ 3,903 December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 65,444 $ 54,505 $ 40,159 $ 32,555 $ 25,278 Total long-term obligations $ 18,161 $ 15,675 $ 7,433 $ 5,361 $ 2,625 ___________________ (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” 17 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. (4) Inventory turnover is the quotient of trailing twelve month cost of sales to average inventory over five quarter ends. (5) Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to current quarter cost of sales, multiplied by the number of days in the current quarter. 19 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2015 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $115 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. During the second quarter of 2015, we changed the measurement date of our annual goodwill impairment test from October 1 to April 1. In testing for goodwill impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an interim impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of April 1, 2015, would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts the fair value measurement through our weighted-average cost of capital that we use to determine a discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are short-term in nature or a longer-term trend. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate goodwill for impairment. Changes in our estimated future cash flows and asset fair values may cause us to realize material impairment charges in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2015 closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining to vest, and historical forfeiture experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. We have not made any significant changes to the accounting methodology used to evaluate stock-based compensation. Changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $46 million impact on our 2015 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , were 28% and 27%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense adjustment is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. 20 Table of Contents Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., the European Union and its member states, and a number of other countries are actively pursuing changes in this regard. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We are also currently subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken in 2005 and 2006, and we are currently contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 11,920 $ 6,842 $ 5,475 Investing activities (6,450 ) (5,065 ) (4,276 ) Financing activities (3,763 ) 4,432 (539 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $19.8 billion , $17.4 billion , and $12.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $7.3 billion , $5.4 billion, and $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. Cash provided by operating activities was $11.9 billion , $6.8 billion , and $5.5 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income (loss), excluding non-cash charges to net income (loss) such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, and changes in working capital. The increase in operating cash flow in 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in non-cash charges to net income (loss), including depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by changes in working capital. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(6.5) billion , $(5.1) billion , and $(4.3) billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Cash capital expenditures were $4.6 billion , $ 4.9 billion , and $ 3.4 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . This primarily reflects additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations, during all three periods. Capital expenditures included $528 million, $537 million, and $493 million for internal-use software and website development in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $795 million , $979 million , and $312 million . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(3.8) billion , $4.4 billion , and $(539) million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other. Principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other were $4.2 billion , $1.9 billion , and $1.0 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The increase in 2015 primarily reflects additional repayments on capital leases as well as a $750 million repayment on our unsecured senior notes. Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $4.7 billion , $4.0 billion , and $1.9 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , with the increases reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS. We expect this trend toward additional investment to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and other and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $353 million , $6.4 billion , and $394 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . During 2014, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $6.0 billion of senior nonconvertible unsecured debt in five tranches maturing in 2019 through 2044. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $119 million , $6 million , and $78 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . 22 Table of Contents We had no borrowings outstanding under our $2.0 billion Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2015 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional information. In 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we recorded net tax provisions of $950 million , $167 million , and $161 million . Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings, and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2015 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $5.8 billion, which included undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. of $1.5 billion . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $273 million , $177 million , and $169 million for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . As of December 31, 2015 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.1 billion and we had approximately $622 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, which was made permanent in 2015. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $285 million and $450 million . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $6.2 billion as of December 31, 2015 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 8 for 2015 and 9 for 2014 and 2013 . We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” In 2014, we recorded charges estimated at $170 million primarily related to Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs, the majority of which was included in the North America segment. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including Prime Video and Prime Music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. The increase in 2014 was also impacted by the expansion of digital offerings and Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction 28 Table of Contents and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and service sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, direct sales, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, as well as payroll and related expenses. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. Digital media content costs related to revenue recorded gross, including Prime Video, are included in cost of sales. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , compared to comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on technology infrastructure principally allocated to our AWS segment, and an increase in payroll and related costs associated with expanding our products and services. Technology infrastructure costs consist of servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and payroll expenses. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. In 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we expanded our technology infrastructure principally by increasing our capacity for AWS service offerings globally, compared to the comparable prior year periods. Additionally, the costs associated with operating and maintaining our expanded infrastructure have increased over time, corresponding with increased usage. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in technology infrastructure to support increased usage. The increase in payroll and related costs is primarily due to the expansion of new and existing product categories and service offerings, including AWS, and initiatives to expand our ecosystem of products and services. For 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we capitalized $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), and $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $635 million , $559 million , and $451 million for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. 29 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $2.1 billion , $1.5 billion , and $1.1 billion during 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The increase in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to an increase in the number of stock-based compensation awards granted to existing and new employees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $171 million , $133 million , and $114 million during 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations increased to $2.2 billion in 2015 , from $178 million in 2014 and $745 million in 2013 . We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $50 million , $39 million , and $38 million during 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $459 million , $210 million , and $141 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our long-term debt, and capital and finance lease arrangements. Our long-term debt was $8.2 billion and $8.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . Our other long-term liabilities were $9.9 billion and $7.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt and Note 6—Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(256) million , $(118) million , and $(136) million during 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign-currency gains (losses). Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $950 million , $167 million , and $161 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Our provision for income taxes in 2015 was higher than in 2014 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income and increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We generated income in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Our provision for income taxes in 2014 was higher than in 2013 primarily due to the increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit were primarily generated by our foreign subsidiaries. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions was primarily related to our European operations. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019 and made permanent the U.S. federal research and development credit. As of December 31, 2015 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.1 billion and we had 30 Table of Contents approximately $622 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, which was made permanent in 2015. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(22) million , $37 million , and $(71) million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , and is primarily related to our investment in LivingSocial. The primary component of this activity during 2014 was our share of a gain recorded by LivingSocial related to the sale of its Korean operations. This gain was partially offset by operating losses incurred by LivingSocial during the period. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates The effect on our income from operations from changes in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 Year Ended December 31, 2013 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 112,173 $ (5,167 ) $ 107,006 $ 89,624 $ (636 ) $ 88,988 $ 75,736 $ (1,284 ) $ 74,452 Operating expenses 109,956 (5,183 ) 104,773 89,466 (656 ) 88,810 74,962 (1,255 ) 73,707 Income from operations 2,217 16 2,233 158 20 178 774 (29 ) 745 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows, operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net” which is included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,920 $ 6,842 $ 5,475 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,589 ) (4,893 ) (3,444 ) Free cash flow $ 7,331 $ 1,949 $ 2,031 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (6,450 ) $ (5,065 ) $ (4,276 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,763 ) $ 4,432 $ (539 ) 31 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,920 $ 6,842 $ 5,475 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,589 ) (4,893 ) (3,444 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (2,462 ) (1,285 ) (775 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (121 ) (135 ) (5 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 4,748 $ 529 $ 1,251 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (6,450 ) $ (5,065 ) $ (4,276 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,763 ) $ 4,432 $ (539 ) Free Cash Flow Less Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,920 $ 6,842 $ 5,475 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,589 ) (4,893 ) (3,444 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (4,717 ) (4,008 ) (1,867 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (121 ) (135 ) (5 ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ 2,493 $ (2,194 ) $ 159 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (6,450 ) $ (5,065 ) $ (4,276 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,763 ) $ 4,432 $ (539 ) All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Operating Expenses, Excluding Stock-Based Compensation Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment 32 Table of Contents results, and therefore, excluding it from operating expenses is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on January 28, 2016 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 28, 2016 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2015 (in millions, except percentages): 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2015 Money market funds $ 8,025 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 8,025 $ 8,025 Weighted-average interest rate 0.21 % — % — % — % — % — % 0.21 % Corporate debt securities 131 172 141 14 11 — 469 477 Weighted-average interest rate 1.52 % 1.85 % 1.84 % 0.57 % 0.74 % — % 1.69 % U.S. government and agency securities 4,487 484 147 31 6 — 5,155 5,167 Weighted-average interest rate 0.37 % 1.26 % 1.41 % 1.52 % 2.23 % — % 0.50 % Asset backed securities 65 39 8 4 — — 116 117 Weighted-average interest rate 1.85 % 1.87 % 1.80 % 1.83 % — % — % 1.85 % Foreign government and agency securities 1 24 16 1 6 — 48 49 Weighted-average interest rate (0.03 )% (0.10 )% (0.04 )% 0.01 % 0.04 % — % (0.06 )% Other securities 15 18 5 3 — — 41 42 Weighted-average interest rate 0.64 % 1.33 % 1.17 % 2.23 % — % — % 1.12 % $ 12,724 $ 737 $ 317 $ 53 $ 23 $ — $ 13,854 Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ 13,877 As of December 31, 2015 , we had $8.5 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions): 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 $ 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 $ 1,250 2.60% Notes due on December 5, 2019 $ 1,000 3.30% Notes due on December 5, 2021 $ 1,000 3.80% Notes due on December 5, 2024 $ 1,250 4.80% Notes due on December 5, 2034 $ 1,250 4.95% Notes due on December 5, 2044 $ 1,500 34 Table of Contents The fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $8.8 billion as of December 31, 2015 . Foreign Exchange Risk During 2015 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 33% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused websites, and from www.amazon.ca and www.amazon.com.mx (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2015 , International segment revenues decreased by $5.0 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2015 , of $7.3 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $365 million, $730 million, and $1.5 billion. All investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2015 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $190 million, $405 million, and $905 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2015 , our recorded basis in equity investments was $280 million. These investments primarily relate to equity-method and cost-method investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 35 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 37 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 38 Consolidated Statements of Operations 39 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 40 Consolidated Balance Sheets 41 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 42 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43 36 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 . These financial statements are the responsibility of the company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2015 and 2014 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 , based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated January 28, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 28, 2016 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 14,557 $ 8,658 $ 8,084 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) 596 (241 ) 274 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization, including capitalized content costs 6,281 4,746 3,253 Stock-based compensation 2,119 1,497 1,134 Other operating expense (income), net 155 129 114 Losses (gains) on sales of marketable securities, net 5 (3 ) 1 Other expense (income), net 245 62 166 Deferred income taxes 81 (316 ) (156 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (119 ) (6 ) (78 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (2,187 ) (1,193 ) (1,410 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (1,755 ) (1,039 ) (846 ) Accounts payable 4,294 1,759 1,888 Accrued expenses and other 913 706 736 Additions to unearned revenue 7,401 4,433 2,691 Amortization of previously unearned revenue (6,109 ) (3,692 ) (2,292 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 11,920 6,842 5,475 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,589 ) (4,893 ) (3,444 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (795 ) (979 ) (312 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 3,025 3,349 2,306 Purchases of marketable securities (4,091 ) (2,542 ) (2,826 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (6,450 ) (5,065 ) (4,276 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 119 6 78 Proceeds from long-term debt and other 353 6,359 394 Repayments of long-term debt and other (1,652 ) (513 ) (231 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (2,462 ) (1,285 ) (775 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (121 ) (135 ) (5 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (3,763 ) 4,432 (539 ) Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (374 ) (310 ) (86 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,333 5,899 574 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 15,890 $ 14,557 $ 8,658 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 325 $ 91 $ 97 Cash paid for interest on capital and finance lease obligations 153 86 41 Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) 273 177 169 Property and equipment acquired under capital leases 4,717 4,008 1,867 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit leases 544 920 877 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net product sales $ 79,268 $ 70,080 $ 60,903 Net service sales 27,738 18,908 13,549 Total net sales 107,006 88,988 74,452 Operating expenses (1): Cost of sales 71,651 62,752 54,181 Fulfillment 13,410 10,766 8,585 Marketing 5,254 4,332 3,133 Technology and content 12,540 9,275 6,565 General and administrative 1,747 1,552 1,129 Other operating expense (income), net 171 133 114 Total operating expenses 104,773 88,810 73,707 Income from operations 2,233 178 745 Interest income 50 39 38 Interest expense (459 ) (210 ) (141 ) Other income (expense), net (256 ) (118 ) (136 ) Total non-operating income (expense) (665 ) (289 ) (239 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 1,568 (111 ) 506 Provision for income taxes (950 ) (167 ) (161 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (22 ) 37 (71 ) Net income (loss) $ 596 $ (241 ) $ 274 Basic earnings per share $ 1.28 $ (0.52 ) $ 0.60 Diluted earnings per share $ 1.25 $ (0.52 ) $ 0.59 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 467 462 457 Diluted 477 462 465 _____________ (1)    Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Fulfillment $ 482 $ 375 $ 294 Marketing 190 125 88 Technology and content 1,224 804 603 General and administrative 223 193 149 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net income (loss) $ 596 $ (241 ) $ 274 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $10, $(3), and $(20) (210 ) (325 ) 63 Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $(5), $1, and $3 (7 ) 2 (10 ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $0, $(1), and $(1) 5 (3 ) 1 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (2 ) (1 ) (9 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) (212 ) (326 ) 54 Comprehensive income (loss) $ 384 $ (567 ) $ 328 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2015 2014 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 15,890 $ 14,557 Marketable securities 3,918 2,859 Inventories 10,243 8,299 Accounts receivable, net and other 6,423 5,612 Total current assets 36,474 31,327 Property and equipment, net 21,838 16,967 Goodwill 3,759 3,319 Other assets 3,373 2,892 Total assets $ 65,444 $ 54,505 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 20,397 $ 16,459 Accrued expenses and other 10,384 9,807 Unearned revenue 3,118 1,823 Total current liabilities 33,899 28,089 Long-term debt 8,235 8,265 Other long-term liabilities 9,926 7,410 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 494 and 488 Outstanding shares — 471 and 465 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (1,837 ) (1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 13,394 11,135 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (723 ) (511 ) Retained earnings 2,545 1,949 Total stockholders’ equity 13,384 10,741 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 65,444 $ 54,505 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2013 454 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 8,347 $ (239 ) $ 1,916 $ 8,192 Net income — — — — — 274 274 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 54 — 54 Exercise of common stock options 5 — — 4 — — 4 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 73 — — 73 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 1,149 — — 1,149 Balance as of December 31, 2013 459 5 (1,837 ) 9,573 (185 ) 2,190 9,746 Net loss — — — — — (241 ) (241 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (326 ) — (326 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 2 — — 2 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 6 — — 6 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 1,510 — — 1,510 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 44 — — 44 Balance as of December 31, 2014 465 5 (1,837 ) 11,135 (511 ) 1,949 10,741 Net income — — — — — 596 596 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (212 ) — (212 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 4 — — 4 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 119 — — 119 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 2,131 — — 2,131 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 5 — — 5 Balance as of December 31, 2015 471 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 13,394 $ (723 ) $ 2,545 $ 13,384 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 42 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through our AWS segment, which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 11—Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including recasting the segment financial information within “Note 11—Segment Information” as a result of changing our reportable segments to include an AWS segment. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the amortization period of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. In 2014, we excluded stock awards of 17 million . The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 467 462 457 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 10 — 8 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 477 462 465 43 Table of Contents Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of our digital devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo, are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud storage and free trial memberships to other services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music, Prime Photos, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we will update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed fees, a percentage of seller revenues, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Amazon’s electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, digital content subscriptions, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $153 million , $147 million , and $167 million as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Additions to the allowance were $1.3 billion , $1.1 billion , and $907 million , and deductions to the allowance were $1.3 billion , $1.1 billion , and $938 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Total net sales.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including Prime Video and Prime Music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. 44 Table of Contents Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for advertising services, cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $3.8 billion , $3.3 billion , and $2.4 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining to vest, and historical forfeiture experience. 45 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency losses of $(266) million , $(127) million , and $(137) million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , and realized gains (losses) on marketable securities sales of $(5) million , $3 million , and $(1) million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 . Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2015 , or December 31, 2014 . As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock primarily in private companies. We record these assets in “Other assets” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Equity warrant assets are classified as Level 3 assets, and the balances and related activity for our equity warrant assets were not significant for the periods ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . 46 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customer and seller receivables and vendor receivables. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , customer and seller receivables, net, were $2.6 billion and $1.9 billion , and vendor receivables, net, were $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion . We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $189 million , $190 million , and $153 million as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Additions to the allowance were $289 million , $225 million , and $172 million , and deductions to the allowance were $290 million , $188 million , and $135 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we capitalized $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), and $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $635 million , $559 million , and $451 million for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, financing, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a 47 Table of Contents lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing for goodwill impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. During the second quarter of 2015, we changed the measurement date of our annual goodwill impairment test from October 1 to April 1 . This change was not material to our consolidated financial statements as it did not result in the delay, acceleration, or avoidance of an impairment charge. We believe this timing better aligns the goodwill impairment test with our strategic business planning process, which is a key component of the goodwill impairment test. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2015, and determined that goodwill is not impaired. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2015 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; video and music content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; intellectual property rights, net of amortization; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content We obtain video and music content to be made available to Prime members through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions and generally have terms from one to five years with fixed payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee per title and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated viewing patterns over each title’s contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from six months to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. The production costs of internally developed content are capitalized only if persuasive evidence exists that the production will generate revenue. Prior to 2015, because we had limited history to support the economic benefits of our content, we generally expensed such costs as incurred. In 2015, we began capitalizing a portion of production costs as we have developed more experience to support that future revenue will be earned. Capitalized internally developed costs are generally amortized to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” 48 Table of Contents on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2015 or 2014 . Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. 49 Table of Contents Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom . Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded losses of $215 million , $98 million , and $84 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of the revenue recognition guidance to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We are continuing to evaluate our method of adoption and the impact this ASU, and related amendments and interpretations, will have on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued an ASU modifying the accounting for inventory. Under this ASU, the measurement principle for inventory will change from lower of cost or market value to lower of cost and net realizable value. The ASU defines net realizable value as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The ASU is applicable to inventory that is accounted for under the first-in, first-out method and is effective for reporting periods after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes and requiring all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as non-current on the consolidated balance sheet. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The ASU may be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the method of adoption and expect this ASU will have an impact on our consolidated balance sheets as our current deferred tax assets were $769 million and current deferred tax liabilities were $13 million as of December 31, 2015. 50 Table of Contents Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2015 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 6,201 $ — $ — $ 6,201 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 8,025 — — 8,025 Equity securities 4 11 — 15 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 49 — — 49 U.S. government and agency securities 5,171 1 (5 ) 5,167 Corporate debt securities 479 — (2 ) 477 Asset-backed securities 118 — (1 ) 117 Other fixed income securities 42 — — 42 $ 20,089 $ 12 $ (8 ) $ 20,093 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (285 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 19,808 December 31, 2014 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 4,155 $ — $ — $ 4,155 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 10,718 — — 10,718 Equity securities 2 2 — 4 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 80 — — 80 U.S. government and agency securities 2,407 1 (2 ) 2,406 Corporate debt securities 401 1 (1 ) 401 Asset-backed securities 69 — — 69 Other fixed income securities 33 — — 33 $ 17,865 $ 4 $ (3 ) $ 17,866 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (450 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 17,416 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies.” 51 Table of Contents The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Realized gains $ 2 $ 8 $ 6 Realized losses 7 5 7 The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2015 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 12,533 $ 12,531 Due after one year through five years 1,086 1,084 Due after five years through ten years 96 95 Due after ten years 169 167 Total $ 13,884 $ 13,877 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. Note 3—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 9,770 $ 7,150 Equipment and internal-use software (2) 18,417 14,213 Other corporate assets 334 304 Construction in progress 1,532 1,063 Gross property and equipment 30,053 22,730 Total accumulated depreciation (1) 8,215 5,763 Total property and equipment, net $ 21,838 $ 16,967 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. (2) Includes internal-use software of $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $4.9 billion , $3.6 billion , and $2.5 billion , which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $2.7 billion , $1.5 billion , and $826 million for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $12.0 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $5.4 billion and $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $2.0 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $199 million and $87 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . 52 Table of Contents Note 4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2015 Acquisition Activity During 2015 , we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $690 million . The primary reasons for these acquisitions, none of which was individually material to our consolidated financial statements, were to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 599 Stock options and restricted stock units assumed 5 Indemnification holdback 86 $ 690 Allocation Goodwill $ 482 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 3 Contract-based 1 Technology-based 208 Customer-related 18 230 Property and equipment 4 Deferred tax assets 55 Other assets acquired 53 Deferred tax liabilities (85 ) Other liabilities assumed (49 ) $ 690 ___________________ (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and six years, with a weighted-average amortization period of five years. The fair value of assumed stock options, estimated using the Black-Scholes model, and restricted stock units of $9 million will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Pro Forma Financial Information – 2015 Acquisition Activity (unaudited) The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating income (loss) of the companies acquired was $23 million and $(112) million for 2015 . The following financial information, which excludes certain acquired companies for which the pro forma impact is not meaningful, presents our results as if the acquisitions during 2015 had occurred at the beginning of 2014 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Net sales $ 107,054 $ 89,039 Net income (loss) $ 576 $ (311 ) 53 Table of Contents 2014 Acquisition Activity On September 25, 2014 , we acquired Twitch Interactive, Inc. (“Twitch”) for approximately $842 million in cash, as adjusted for the assumption of options and other items. During 2014, we acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $20 million . We acquired Twitch because of its user community and the live streaming experience it provides. The primary reasons for our other 2014 acquisitions were to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 813 Stock options assumed 44 Indemnification holdback 5 $ 862 Allocation Goodwill $ 707 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 23 Contract-based 1 Technology-based 33 Customer-related 173 230 Property and equipment 16 Deferred tax assets 64 Other assets acquired 34 Deferred tax liabilities (88 ) Other liabilities assumed (101 ) $ 862 ___________________ (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and five years, with a weighted-average amortization period of five years. The fair value of assumed stock options of $39 million , estimated using the Black-Scholes model, will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2013 Acquisition Activity In 2013, we acquired several companies in cash transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $195 million , resulting in goodwill of $103 million and acquired intangible assets of $83 million . The primary reasons for these acquisitions were to expand our customer base and sales channels and to obtain certain technologies to be used in product development. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 54 Table of Contents Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2015 and 2014 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2014 $ 2,033 $ 622 $ — $ 2,655 New acquisitions (1) 553 162 — 715 Other adjustments (2) (2 ) (49 ) — (51 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2014 2,584 735 — 3,319 Segment reallocation—January 1, 2015 (3) (606 ) — 606 — New acquisitions 41 18 423 482 Other adjustments (2) (7 ) (34 ) (1 ) (42 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2015 $ 2,012 $ 719 $ 1,028 $ 3,759 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes the goodwill of Twitch. (2) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. (3) In conjunction with the change in reportable segments, we reallocated goodwill on a relative fair value basis. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Marketing-related 4.4 $ 457 $ (250 ) $ 207 $ 457 $ (199 ) $ 258 Contract-based 2.1 130 (99 ) 31 172 (125 ) 47 Technology- and content-based 3.9 559 (205 ) 354 370 (129 ) 241 Customer-related 3.6 331 (161 ) 170 535 (317 ) 218 Acquired intangibles (2) 3.9 $ 1,477 $ (715 ) $ 762 $ 1,534 $ (770 ) $ 764 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and ten years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $228 million , $181 million , and $168 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2015 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 $ 218 2017 191 2018 131 2019 103 2020 41 Thereafter 78 $ 762 55 Table of Contents Note 5—LONG-TERM DEBT In December 2014 and November 2012, we issued $6.0 billion and $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes as described in the table below (collectively, the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , the unamortized discount on the Notes was $89 million and $96 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion, of $312 million and $881 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 0.65% Notes due on November 27, 2015 $ — $ 750 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 (1) 1,000 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.60% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 1,000 3.30% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 3.80% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 4.80% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 4.95% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 Other long-term debt 312 881 Total debt 8,562 9,881 Less current portion of long-term debt (238 ) (1,520 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 8,324 $ 8,361 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rates of the 2017 and 2022 Notes were 1.38% and 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December . Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the Notes are used for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $8.5 billion and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , which is based on quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt as of those dates. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.7% and 5.5% as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . As of December 31, 2015 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 $ 238 2017 1,037 2018 37 2019 1,000 2020 — Thereafter 6,250 $ 8,562 On September 5, 2014 , we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion . The Credit Agreement has a term of two years , but it may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders . The initial interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus 0.625% , under our current credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded this rate could increase to as much as LIBOR plus 1.00% . There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 . 56 Table of Contents Note 6—OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 4,212 $ 3,026 Long-term finance lease obligations 1,736 1,198 Construction liabilities 378 467 Tax contingencies 932 510 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 1,084 1,021 Other 1,584 1,188 Total other long-term liabilities $ 9,926 $ 7,410 Capital and Finance Leases Certain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 Gross capital lease obligations $ 7,452 Less imputed interest (213 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 7,239 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (3,027 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 4,212 We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liabilities.” As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 Gross finance lease obligations $ 2,390 Less imputed interest (555 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 1,835 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (99 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 1,736 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax Contingencies We have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See “Note 10—Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. 57 Table of Contents Note 7—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, and renewable energy facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $1.1 billion , $961 million , and $759 million for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2015 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 526 $ 1,322 $ 310 $ 1,272 $ 246 $ 9,157 $ 12,833 Capital lease obligations, including interest 3,128 2,521 1,277 304 139 83 7,452 Finance lease obligations, including interest 166 168 172 176 178 1,530 2,390 Operating leases 1,181 897 800 698 616 2,325 6,517 Unconditional purchase obligations (1) 614 547 399 166 43 13 1,782 Other commitments (2) (3) 851 273 188 132 86 1,112 2,642 Total commitments $ 6,466 $ 5,728 $ 3,146 $ 2,748 $ 1,308 $ 14,220 $ 33,616 ___________________ (1) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (3) Excludes $1.2 billion of tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $418 million and $602 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt relating to certain international operations, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions. Suppliers During 2015 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon.com International Sales, Inc., Amazon EU S.à r.l., Amazon.de GmbH, Amazon.com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contested Austro-Mechana’s claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. We lost this appeal and in March 2011 commenced an appeal in the Supreme Court of Austria. In October 2011, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case to the European Court of Justice (“ECJ”). In July 2013, the ECJ ruled that EU law does not preclude application of the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back to the Austrian Supreme Court for further 58 Table of Contents proceedings. In October 2013, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back to the Commercial Court of Vienna for further fact finding to determine whether the tariff on blank digital media meets the conditions set by the ECJ. In August 2015, the Commercial Court of Vienna ruled that the Austrian tariff regime does not meet the conditions the ECJ set and dismissed Austro-Mechana’s claims. In September 2015, Austro-Mechana appealed that judgment to the Higher Commercial Court of Vienna. In December 2015, the Higher Commercial Court of Vienna confirmed that the Austrian tariff regime does not meet the conditions the ECJ set and dismissed Austro-Mechana’s appeal. A number of additional actions have been filed making similar allegations. In December 2012, a German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte (“ZPU”), filed a complaint against Amazon EU S.à r.l., Amazon Media EU S.à r.l., Amazon Services Europe S.à r.l., Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings S.à r.l. in the District Court of Luxembourg seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.de retail website to customers located in Germany. In January 2013, a Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed a complaint against Amazon EU S.à r.l. in the Court of First Instance of Brussels, Belgium, seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.fr retail website to customers located in Belgium. In November 2013, the Belgian court ruled in favor of AUVIBEL and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Payments, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes patents owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover an “Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce And Business Automation System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,115,690 and 6,343,275) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In February 2011, the court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patent. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In June 2012, Hand Held Products, Inc., a subsidiary of Honeywell, filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., AMZN Mobile, LLC, AmazonFresh, LLC, A9.com, Inc., A9 Innovations, LLC, and Quidsi, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of mobile barcode reader applications, including Amazon Mobile, Amazon Price Check, Flow, and AmazonFresh, infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,015,088, entitled “Decoding Of Real Time Video Imaging.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and an injunction. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2012, Norman Blagman filed a purported class-action complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for copyright infringement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. sells digital music in our Amazon MP3 Store obtained from defendant Orchard Enterprises and other unnamed “digital music aggregators” without obtaining mechanical licenses for the compositions embodied in that music. The complaint seeks certification as a class action, statutory damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2012, Lexington Luminance LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Digital Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain light-emitting diodes in certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,936,851, entitled “Semiconductor Light-Emitting Device And Method For Manufacturing Same.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and an injunction or, in the absence of an injunction, a compulsory ongoing royalty. In March 2014, the court invalidated the plaintiff’s patent and dismissed the case with prejudice, and the plaintiff appealed the judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In February 2015, the Federal Circuit reversed the judgment of the district court. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in August 2013, a number of complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries failed to compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting in security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. In August 2013, Busk v. Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, and Vance v. Amazon.com, Inc., Zappos.com Inc., another affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In September 2013, Allison v. Amazon.com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, and Johnson v. Amazon.com, Inc. and an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In October 2013, Davis v. Amazon.com, Inc., an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport to represent a nationwide class of certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and/or state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees in states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. We have been named in several other similar cases. In December 2014, the Supreme Court ruled in Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening is not 59 Table of Contents compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. In February 2015, the courts in those actions alleging only federal law claims entered stipulated orders dismissing those actions without prejudice. We dispute any remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In September 2013, Personalized Media Communications, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of certain Kindle devices, Kindle apps and/or Amazon.com, Inc.’s website to purchase and receive electronic media infringes nine U.S. Patents: Nos. 5,887,243, 7,801,304, 7,805,749, 7,940,931, 7,769,170, 7,864,956, 7,827,587, 8,046,791, and 7,883,252, all entitled “Signal Processing Apparatus And Methods.” The complaint also alleges, among other things, that CloudFront, S3, and EC2 web services infringe three of those patents, Nos. 7,801,304, 7,864,956, and 7,827,587. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief. In August 2015, the court invalidated all asserted claims of all asserted patents and dismissed the case with prejudice. In September 2015, Personalized Media appealed that judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2013, Memory Integrity, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,296,121, entitled “Reducing Probe Traffic In Multiprocessor Systems.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, costs, expenses, and interest. In December 2014, the case was stayed pending resolution of review petitions filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2013, Appistry, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 8,200,746, entitled “System And Method For Territory-Based Processing Of Information,” and 8,341,209, entitled “System And Method For Processing Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, treble damages, costs, and interest. In March 2015, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. In July 2015, the court granted our motion for judgment on the pleadings and invalidated the patents-in-suit. In August 2015, the court entered judgment in our favor. In September 2015, the plaintiff appealed that judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and filed a new complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. The 2015 complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud, Simple Workflow, and Herd infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 8,682,959, entitled “System And Method For Fault Tolerant Processing Of Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers,” and 9,049,267, entitled “System And Method For Processing Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers.” The 2015 complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, treble damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In March 2014, Kaavo, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Web Services’ Elastic Beanstalk and CloudFormation infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,271,974, entitled “Cloud Computing Lifecycle Management For N-Tier Applications.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, costs, and interest. In June 2015, the case was stayed pending resolution of a motion for judgment on the pleadings in a related case. In July 2015, Kaavo Inc. filed another complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The 2015 complaint alleges, among other things, that CloudFormation infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,043,751, entitled “Methods And Devices For Managing A Cloud Computing Environment.” The 2015 complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. In January 2016, the 2015 case was stayed pending resolution of a motion for judgment on the pleadings. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In December 2014, Smartflash LLC and Smartflash Technologies Limited filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, AMZN Mobile, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Audible, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, Audible Audiobooks, the Amazon Mobile Ad Network, certain Kindle and Fire devices, Kindle e-bookstore, Amazon’s proprietary Android operating system, and the servers involved in operating Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, the Fire TV app, Audible Audiobooks, Cloud Drive, Cloud Player, Amazon Web Services, and Amazon Mobile Ad Network infringe seven related U.S. Patents: Nos. 7,334,720; 7,942,317; 8,033,458; 8,061,598; 8,118,221; 8,336,772; and 8,794,516, all entitled “Data Storage and Access Systems.” In May 2015, the case was stayed until further notice. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 60 Table of Contents In March 2015, Zitovault, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc., and Amazon Web Services, LLC for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that Elastic Compute Cloud, Virtual Private Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing, Auto-Scaling, and Elastic Beanstalk infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,484,257, entitled “System and Method for Maintaining N Number of Simultaneous Cryptographic Sessions Using a Distributed Computing Environment.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. In January 2016, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In June 2015, the European Commission opened a proceeding against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon EU S.à r.l. to investigate whether provisions in Amazon’s contracts with European publishers violate European competition rules. We believe we comply with European competition rules and are cooperating with the Commission. In November 2015, Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of “interactive features” on www.amazon.com, including “search suggestions and search results,” infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,195,507, entitled “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects Within A Hypermedia Document.” The complaint seeks a judgment of infringement together with costs and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. The outcomes of our legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. In addition, for some matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, an estimate of the amount of loss or range of losses is not possible and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. See also “Note 10—Income Taxes.” 61 Table of Contents Note 8—STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 490 million , 483 million , and 476 million , as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock with no fixed expiration. We have $763 million remaining under the $2.0 billion repurchase program. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock options outstanding, which were primarily obtained through acquisitions, totaled 0.2 million, 0.4 million and 0.2 million, as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The compensation expense for stock options, the total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options, and the related tax benefits were not material for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2013 15.4 $ 184 Units granted 7.2 283 Units vested (4.5 ) 160 Units forfeited (1.8 ) 209 Outstanding as of December 31, 2013 16.3 233 Units granted 8.5 328 Units vested (5.1 ) 202 Units forfeited (2.3 ) 264 Outstanding as of December 31, 2014 17.4 285 Units granted 9.8 426 Units vested (5.6 ) 253 Units forfeited (2.7 ) 321 Outstanding as of December 31, 2015 18.9 $ 362 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2015 , is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 6.4 7.0 3.6 1.6 0.1 0.2 18.9 As of December 31, 2015 , there was $3.1 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted-average recognition period of 1.1 years. 62 Table of Contents During 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $2.7 billion , $1.7 billion , and $1.4 billion . As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.2 million shares of common stock in 2015 and 2014 . Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued, and recorded as stock-based compensation expense. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance As of December 31, 2015 , common stock available for future issuance to employees is 130 million shares. Note 9—ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Changes in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive loss for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 are as follows (in millions): Foreign currency translation adjustments Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Total Balances as of January 1, 2013 $ (250 ) $ 11 $ (239 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 63 (9 ) 54 Balances as of December 31, 2013 (187 ) 2 (185 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (325 ) (1 ) (326 ) Balances as of December 31, 2014 (512 ) 1 (511 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (210 ) (2 ) (212 ) Balances as of December 31, 2015 $ (722 ) $ (1 ) $ (723 ) Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net of their related income tax effects. Note 10—INCOME TAXES In 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we recorded net tax provisions of $950 million , $167 million , and $161 million . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019 and made permanent the U.S. federal research and development credit. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $273 million , $177 million , and $169 million for 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Current taxes: U.S. Federal $ 215 $ 214 $ 99 U.S. State 237 65 45 International 417 204 173 Current taxes 869 483 317 Deferred taxes: U.S. Federal 473 (125 ) (114 ) U.S. State (171 ) (11 ) (19 ) International (221 ) (180 ) (23 ) Deferred taxes 81 (316 ) (156 ) Provision for income taxes, net $ 950 $ 167 $ 161 63 Table of Contents U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 U.S. $ 2,186 $ 292 $ 704 International (618 ) (403 ) (198 ) Income (loss) before income taxes $ 1,568 $ (111 ) $ 506 The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate $ 549 $ (39 ) $ 177 Effect of: Impact of foreign tax differential 350 136 (41 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 37 29 14 Tax credits (99 ) (85 ) (84 ) Nondeductible compensation 149 117 86 Domestic production activities deduction (44 ) (20 ) (11 ) Other, net 8 29 20 Total $ 950 $ 167 $ 161 Our provision for income taxes in 2015 was higher than in 2014 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income and increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We generated income in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Our provision for income taxes in 2014 was higher than in 2013 primarily due to the increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit were primarily generated by our foreign subsidiaries. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions was primarily related to our European operations. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 . Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. 64 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets (1): Net operating losses U.S. - Federal/States (2) $ 107 $ 357 Net operating losses foreign (3) 856 669 Accrued liabilities, reserves, & other expenses 854 780 Stock-based compensation 727 534 Deferred revenue 189 156 Assets held for investment 148 154 Depreciation & amortization 222 117 Other items 268 125 Tax credits (4) 41 115 Total gross deferred tax assets 3,412 3,007 Less valuation allowance (5) (1,069 ) (901 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 2,343 2,106 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation & amortization (1,970 ) (1,609 ) Acquisition related intangible assets (203 ) (195 ) Other items (88 ) (31 ) Net deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance $ 82 $ 271 ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits are presented net of tax contingencies. (2) Excluding $380 million and $261 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (3) Excluding $2 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (4) Excluding $447 million and $268 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , related to tax credits that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. (5) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. As of December 31, 2015 , our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.1 billion , $3.4 billion , and $2.0 billion . The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state tax law. If not utilized, a portion of the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2020 , 2016 , and 2016 , respectively. As of December 31, 2015 , our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $725 million . If not utilized, a portion of the tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in 2017 . The Company’s consolidated balance sheets reflect deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards excluding amounts resulting from excess stock-based compensation. Amounts related to excess stock-based compensation are accounted for as an increase to additional paid-in capital if and when realized through a reduction in income taxes payable. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. 65 Table of Contents The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 710 $ 407 $ 294 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 254 351 78 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (22 ) (50 ) (18 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 242 20 54 Audit settlements paid — (16 ) (1 ) Lapse of statute of limitations (3 ) (2 ) — Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 1,181 $ 710 $ 407 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2015 , we had $1.2 billion of tax contingencies, of which $882 million , if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $59 million and $41 million . Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 was $18 million , $8 million , and $8 million . We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year 2005 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. As previously disclosed, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for transactions undertaken in the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $1.5 billion , subject to interest. To date, we have not resolved this matter administratively and are currently contesting it in U.S. Tax Court. We continue to disagree with these IRS positions and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by the French Tax Administration (“FTA”) for calendar year 2006 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes. In September 2012, we received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years 2006 through 2010 relating to the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions. In June 2015, we received final tax collection notices for these years assessing additional French tax of €196 million , including interest and penalties through September 2012. We disagree with the assessment and intend to contest it vigorously. We plan to pursue all available administrative remedies at the FTA, and if we are not able to resolve this matter with the FTA, we plan to pursue judicial remedies. In addition to the risk of additional tax for years 2006 through 2010, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the FTA were to seek adjustments of a similar nature for subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments in respect of these particular jurisdictions for 2003 and thereafter. We expect the total amount of tax contingencies will grow in 2016 . In addition, changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements may or may not result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on tax filings in years through 2015 . The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes. 66 Table of Contents Note 11—SEGMENT INFORMATION Beginning in the first quarter of 2015, we changed our reportable segments to North America, International, and AWS. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” based on usage, which is generally reflected in the segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of technology infrastructure costs are allocated to the AWS segment based on usage. The majority of the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and are allocated to our North America segment. We exclude from our allocations the portions of these operating expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), net” to our segment operating results. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. North America The North America segment consists primarily of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com, www.amazon.ca, and www.amazon.com.mx. This segment includes export sales from these websites. International The International segment consists primarily of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites such as www.amazon.com.au, www.amazon.com.br, www.amazon.cn, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.in, www.amazon.it, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.nl, www.amazon.es, and www.amazon.co.uk. This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused websites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North American websites. AWS The AWS segment consists of amounts earned from global sales of compute, storage, database, and other AWS service offerings for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions. 67 Table of Contents Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 North America Net sales $ 63,708 $ 50,834 $ 41,410 Segment operating expenses (1) 60,957 49,542 40,244 Segment operating income (loss) $ 2,751 $ 1,292 $ 1,166 International Net sales $ 35,418 $ 33,510 $ 29,934 Segment operating expenses (1) 35,509 33,654 29,780 Segment operating income (loss) $ (91 ) $ (144 ) $ 154 AWS Net sales $ 7,880 $ 4,644 $ 3,108 Segment operating expenses (1) 6,017 3,984 2,435 Segment operating income (loss) $ 1,863 $ 660 $ 673 Consolidated Net sales $ 107,006 $ 88,988 $ 74,452 Segment operating expenses (1) 102,483 87,180 72,459 Segment operating income (loss) 4,523 1,808 1,993 Stock-based compensation (2,119 ) (1,497 ) (1,134 ) Other operating income (expense), net (171 ) (133 ) (114 ) Income from operations 2,233 178 745 Total non-operating income (expense) (665 ) (289 ) (239 ) Provision for income taxes (950 ) (167 ) (161 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (22 ) 37 (71 ) Net income (loss) $ 596 $ (241 ) $ 274 ___________________ (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense (income), net,” which are not allocated to segments. We have aggregated our products and services into groups of similar products and services and provided the supplemental disclosure of net sales (in millions) below. We evaluate whether additional disclosure is appropriate when a product or service category begins to approach a significant level of net sales. For the periods presented, no individual product or service represented more than 10% of net sales. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net Sales: Media $ 22,509 $ 22,505 $ 21,716 Electronics and other general merchandise 75,597 60,886 48,802 AWS 7,880 4,644 3,108 Other (1) 1,020 953 826 $ 107,006 $ 88,988 $ 74,452 ___________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. 68 Table of Contents Net sales generated from our internationally-focused websites are denominated in local functional currencies. Revenues are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 United States $ 70,537 $ 54,717 $ 43,959 Germany 11,816 11,919 10,535 United Kingdom 9,033 8,341 7,291 Japan 8,264 7,912 7,639 Rest of world 7,356 6,099 5,028 Consolidated $ 107,006 $ 88,988 $ 74,452 Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such as cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, capitalized internal-use software and website development costs, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based on usage, with the majority allocated to the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 2013 North America (1) $ 16,772 $ 13,257 $ 9,991 International (1) 7,754 6,747 6,199 AWS (2) 9,787 6,981 3,840 Corporate 31,131 27,520 20,129 Consolidated $ 65,444 $ 54,505 $ 40,159 ___________________ (1) North America and International segment assets primarily consist of inventory, accounts receivable, and property and equipment. (2) AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts receivable. 69 Table of Contents Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 2013 North America $ 6,707 $ 5,373 $ 3,477 International 2,266 2,000 1,549 AWS 8,356 6,043 3,253 Corporate 4,509 3,551 2,670 Consolidated $ 21,838 $ 16,967 $ 10,949 Total property and equipment additions by segment are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 North America (1) $ 2,485 $ 2,833 $ 2,326 International (1) 658 767 851 AWS (2) 4,681 4,295 2,215 Corporate 1,801 1,586 981 Consolidated $ 9,625 $ 9,481 $ 6,373 ___________________ (1) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases of $938 million , $887 million , and $555 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , and under other financing arrangements of $219 million , $599 million , and $715 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . (2) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases of $3.7 billion , $3.0 billion , and $1.3 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 and under finance leases of $81 million , $62 million , and $67 million in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . U.S. property and equipment, net was $16.8 billion , $13.1 billion , and $8.4 billion , in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , and rest of world property and equipment, net was $5.0 billion , $3.8 billion , and $2.5 billion in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net, in any single country was less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net. Depreciation expense, including amortization of capitalized internal-use software and website development costs and other corporate property and equipment depreciation expense, are allocated to all segments based on usage. Total depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 North America $ 1,551 $ 1,203 $ 914 International 822 740 583 AWS 2,576 1,673 963 Consolidated $ 4,949 $ 3,616 $ 2,460 70 Note 12—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2015 and 2014 . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2015 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 35,747 $ 25,358 $ 23,185 $ 22,717 Income (loss) from operations 1,108 406 464 255 Income (loss) before income taxes 938 247 362 21 Provision for income taxes (453 ) (161 ) (266 ) (71 ) Net income (loss) 482 79 92 (57 ) Basic earnings per share 1.03 0.17 0.20 (0.12 ) Diluted earnings per share 1.00 0.17 0.19 (0.12 ) Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 470 468 467 465 Diluted 481 478 476 465 Year Ended December 31, 2014 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 29,328 $ 20,579 $ 19,340 $ 19,741 Income (loss) from operations 591 (544 ) (15 ) 146 Income (loss) before income taxes 429 (634 ) (27 ) 120 Benefit (provision) for income taxes (205 ) 205 (94 ) (73 ) Net income (loss) 214 (437 ) (126 ) 108 Basic earnings per share 0.46 (0.95 ) (0.27 ) 0.23 Diluted earnings per share 0.45 (0.95 ) (0.27 ) 0.23 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 464 463 461 460 Diluted 472 463 461 468 ___________________ (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. 71 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 32  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Our company-sponsored research and development expense is set forth within “Technology and content” in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements of Operations.” Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo, and we develop and produce media content. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, an annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on tens of millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; and digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington. Additionally, we own and lease corporate office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, warehouse operations, data center, customer service, and other facilities, principally in North America, Europe, and Asia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 16 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 61,093 $ 74,452 $ 88,988 $ 107,006 $ 135,987 Operating income $ 676 $ 745 $ 178 $ 2,233 $ 4,186 Net income (loss) $ (39 ) $ 274 $ (241 ) $ 596 $ 2,371 Basic earnings per share (1) $ (0.09 ) $ 0.60 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.28 $ 5.01 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ (0.09 ) $ 0.59 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.25 $ 4.90 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 453 457 462 467 474 Diluted 453 465 462 477 484 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 4,180 $ 5,475 $ 6,842 $ 11,920 $ 16,443 December 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 32,555 $ 40,159 $ 54,505 $ 64,747 $ 83,402 Total long-term obligations $ 5,361 $ 7,433 $ 15,675 $ 17,476 $ 20,301 ___________________ (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” 17 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 19 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2016 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $130 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., the European Union and its member states, and a number of other countries are actively pursuing changes in this regard. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. We are also currently subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken in 2005 and 2006, and we are currently contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 20 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 6,842 $ 11,920 $ 16,443 Investing activities (5,065 ) (6,450 ) (9,876 ) Financing activities 4,432 (3,763 ) (2,911 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $ 17.4 billion , $19.8 billion , and $26.0 billion as of December 31, 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $5.4 billion, $7.3 billion, and $9.1 billion , as of December 31, 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $6.8 billion , $11.9 billion , and $16.4 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2015 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, and changes in working capital. The increase in operating cash flow in 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(5.1) billion , $(6.5) billion , and $(9.9) billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Cash capital expenditures were $4.9 billion , $ 4.6 billion , and $6.7 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), during all three periods. Capital expenditures included $537 million, $528 million, and $417 million for internal-use software and website development in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $979 million , $795 million , and $116 million . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $4.4 billion , $(3.8) billion , and $(2.9) billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other. Principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other were $1.9 billion , $4.2 billion , and $4.4 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The increase in 2015 primarily reflects additional repayments on capital leases as well as a $750 million repayment on our unsecured senior notes. Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $4.0 billion , $4.7 billion , and $5.7 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , with the increase reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and other and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $6.4 billion , $353 million , and $621 million in 2014 , 21 Table of Contents 2015 , and 2016 . During 2014, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $6.0 billion of senior nonconvertible unsecured debt in five tranches maturing in 2019 through 2044. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $6 million , $119 million , and $829 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . We had no borrowings outstanding under our $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and $495 million of borrowings outstanding under our $500 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of December 31, 2016 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional information. In 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , we recorded net tax provisions of $167 million , $950 million , and $1.4 billion . Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings, and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2016 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $8.6 billion , which included undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. of $2.8 billion . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $177 million , $273 million , and $412 million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . As of December 31, 2016 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $76 million and we had approximately $608 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $285 million and $600 million . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $8.5 billion as of December 31, 2016 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months, which includes the maturation of $1.0 billion of our unsecured senior notes. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales and amortized over the life of the membership according to the estimated delivery of services. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net Sales: North America $ 50,834 $ 63,708 $ 79,785 International 33,510 35,418 43,983 AWS 4,644 7,880 12,219 Total consolidated $ 88,988 $ 107,006 $ 135,987 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 23 % 25 % 25 % International 12 6 24 AWS 49 70 55 Total consolidated 20 20 27 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 23 % 26 % 25 % International 14 21 26 AWS 49 70 55 Total consolidated 20 26 28 Net Sales Mix: North America 57 % 60 % 59 % International 38 33 32 AWS 5 7 9 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % Sales increased 20% , 20% , and 27% in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(636) million , $(5.2) billion , and $(550) million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 23% , 25% , and 25% in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection of product offerings. International sales increased 12% , 6% , and 24% in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(580) million , $(5.0) billion , and $(489) million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from 23 Table of Contents our shipping offers, sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection of product offerings. AWS sales increased 49 %, 70 %, and 55 % in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 360 $ 1,425 $ 2,361 International (640 ) (699 ) (1,283 ) AWS 458 1,507 3,108 Total consolidated $ 178 $ 2,233 $ 4,186 Operating income was $178 million , $2.2 billion , and $4.2 billion for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers, partially offset by increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment capacity and spending on technology infrastructure and marketing efforts. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $0 million , $30 million , and $27 million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment capacity and spending on technology infrastructure and marketing efforts, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income (loss) by $(27) million , $(278) million , and $89 million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $41 million , $264 million , and $(5) million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . 24 Table of Contents Supplemental Information Supplemental information about outbound shipping results for our North America and International segments is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Outbound Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2)(3) $ 4,486 $ 6,520 $ 8,976 Shipping costs (4) (8,709 ) (11,539 ) (16,167 ) Net shipping cost $ (4,223 ) $ (5,019 ) $ (7,191 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 45 % 45 % 38 % Shipping costs 31 32 40 Net shipping cost 19 19 43 ___________________ (1) Excludes amounts charged on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes a portion of amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. (3) Includes amounts earned from Fulfillment by Amazon programs related to shipping services. (4) Includes sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. 25 Table of Contents Supplemental information about products and services for our North America and International segments is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net Sales: North America Media $ 11,567 $ 12,483 $ 13,580 Electronics and other general merchandise 38,517 50,401 64,887 Other (1) 750 824 1,318 Total North America $ 50,834 $ 63,708 $ 79,785 International Media $ 10,938 $ 10,026 $ 10,631 Electronics and other general merchandise 22,369 25,196 33,107 Other (1) 203 196 245 Total International $ 33,510 $ 35,418 $ 43,983 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 7 % 8 % 9 % Electronics and other general merchandise 28 31 29 Other 22 10 60 Total North America 23 25 25 International Media — % (8 )% 6 % Electronics and other general merchandise 19 13 31 Other (3 ) (3 ) 25 Total International 12 6 24 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America Media 7 % 8 % 9 % Electronics and other general merchandise 29 31 29 Other 22 10 60 Total North America 23 26 25 International Media 2 % 4 % 7 % Electronics and other general merchandise 21 29 33 Other (3 ) 10 30 Total International 14 21 26 _____________________________ (1) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such as certain advertising services and our co-branded credit card agreements. 26 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Operating Expenses: Cost of sales $ 62,752 $ 71,651 $ 88,265 Fulfillment 10,766 13,410 17,619 Marketing 4,332 5,254 7,233 Technology and content 9,275 12,540 16,085 General and administrative 1,552 1,747 2,432 Other operating expense, net 133 171 167 Total operating expenses $ 88,810 $ 104,773 $ 131,801 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 16 % 14 % 23 % Fulfillment 25 25 31 Marketing 38 21 38 Technology and content 41 35 28 General and administrative 37 13 39 Other operating expense, net 16 28 (2 ) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 70.5 % 67.0 % 64.9 % Fulfillment 12.1 12.5 13.0 Marketing 4.9 4.9 5.3 Technology and content 10.4 11.7 11.8 General and administrative 1.7 1.6 1.8 Other operating expense, net 0.2 0.2 0.1 In 2014, we recorded charges estimated at $170 million primarily related to Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs, the majority of which was included in our North America segment. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including Prime Video and Prime Music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our 27 Table of Contents customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and service sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels and television advertising, as well as payroll and related expenses. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and development of new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure costs. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with expanding our products and services, and an increase in spending on technology infrastructure principally allocated to our AWS segment. Technology infrastructure costs consist of servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and payroll expenses. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. In 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , we expanded our technology infrastructure principally by increasing our capacity for AWS service offerings globally, compared to the comparable prior year periods. Additionally, the costs associated with operating and maintaining our expanded infrastructure have increased over time, corresponding with increased usage. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in technology infrastructure to support increased usage. The increase in payroll and related costs is primarily due to the expansion of existing product categories and service offerings, including AWS, and initiatives to introduce new product and service offerings. For 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , we capitalized $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), and $511 million (including $94 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $559 million , $635 million , and $634 million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. 28 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $133 million , $171 million , and $167 million during 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $39 million , $50 million , and $100 million during 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $210 million , $459 million , and $484 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our long-term debt and capital and finance lease arrangements. Our long-term debt was $8.2 billion and $7.7 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Our other long-term liabilities were $9.2 billion and $12.6 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt and Note 6—Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(118) million , $(256) million , and $90 million during 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign currency and equity warrant valuation gains (losses). Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, foreign currency gains (losses), tax law developments (including changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices), and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $167 million , $950 million , and $1.4 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Our provision for income taxes in 2015 was higher than in 2014 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income and increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We also generated income in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Our provision for income taxes in 2016 was higher than in 2015 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may realize a tax benefit, an increase in tax amortization deductions, and a decline in the proportion of nondeductible expenses. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We generated income and losses in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019 and made permanent the U.S. federal research and development credit. As of December 31, 2016 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $76 million and we had approximately $608 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Income Taxes” for additional information. 29 Table of Contents Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $37 million , $(22) million , and $(96) million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The primary component of this activity during 2014 was our share of a gain recorded by LivingSocial related to the sale of its Korean operations. This gain was partially offset by operating losses incurred by LivingSocial during the period. The primary components of this activity during 2015 and 2016 were our equity-method investment losses during the periods and impairments recorded in 2016. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net,” which is included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 11,920 $ 16,443 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,893 ) (4,589 ) (6,737 ) Free cash flow $ 1,949 $ 7,331 $ 9,706 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,065 ) $ (6,450 ) $ (9,876 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 4,432 $ (3,763 ) $ (2,911 ) Free Cash Flow Less Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 11,920 $ 16,443 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,893 ) (4,589 ) (6,737 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (1,285 ) (2,462 ) (3,860 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (135 ) (121 ) (147 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 529 $ 4,748 $ 5,699 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,065 ) $ (6,450 ) $ (9,876 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 4,432 $ (3,763 ) $ (2,911 ) 30 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 6,842 $ 11,920 $ 16,443 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,893 ) (4,589 ) (6,737 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (4,008 ) (4,717 ) (5,704 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (135 ) (121 ) (147 ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ (2,194 ) $ 2,493 $ 3,855 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (5,065 ) $ (6,450 ) $ (9,876 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 4,432 $ (3,763 ) $ (2,911 ) All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year periods. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2016 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 88,988 $ 636 $ 89,624 $ 107,006 $ 5,167 $ 112,173 $ 135,987 $ 550 $ 136,537 Operating expenses 88,810 656 89,466 104,773 5,183 109,956 131,801 660 132,461 Operating income (loss) 178 (20 ) 158 2,233 (16 ) 2,217 4,186 (110 ) 4,076 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 31 Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2016 (in millions, except percentages): 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2016 Money market funds $ 11,940 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 11,940 $ 11,940 Weighted-average interest rate 0.21 % — % 0.21 % Corporate debt securities 1,300 577 156 28 30 — 2,091 2,104 Weighted-average interest rate 1.27 % 1.58 % 1.26 % 0.60 % 2.24 % — % 1.36 % U.S. government and agency securities 3,545 1,136 88 28 10 — 4,807 4,816 Weighted-average interest rate 0.71 % 1.20 % 1.67 % 1.99 % 2.28 % — % 0.85 % Asset backed securities 217 84 40 10 — — 351 353 Weighted-average interest rate 1.41 % 1.52 % 1.78 % 2.38 % — % 1.51 % Foreign government and agency securities 163 129 39 2 1 — 334 337 Weighted-average interest rate 1.10 % 0.94 % (0.45 )% (0.01 )% 0.79 % — % 0.85 % Other securities 59 15 11 4 7 — 96 97 Weighted-average interest rate 1.33 % 1.67 % 1.90 % 2.07 % 2.33 % — % 1.56 % $ 17,224 $ 1,941 $ 334 $ 72 $ 48 $ — $ 19,619 Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ 19,647 As of December 31, 2016 , we had $8.8 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions): 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 $ 1,000 2.60% Notes due on December 5, 2019 $ 1,000 3.30% Notes due on December 5, 2021 $ 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 $ 1,250 3.80% Notes due on December 5, 2024 $ 1,250 4.80% Notes due on December 5, 2034 $ 1,250 4.95% Notes due on December 5, 2044 $ 1,500 32 Table of Contents Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $9.3 billion as of December 31, 2016 . Foreign Exchange Risk During 2016 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 32% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused websites, and from www.amazon.ca and www.amazon.com.mx (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2016 , International segment net sales decreased by $489 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2016 , of $9.1 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $455 million, $915 million, and $1.8 billion. All investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2016 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $225 million, $476 million, and $1.1 billion, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2016 , our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $467 million. We record our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility, and represents $242 million of our investments as of December 31, 2016 . We evaluate our equity and equity warrant investments in private companies for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 33 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 35 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 36 Consolidated Statements of Operations 37 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 40 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41 34 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 . These financial statements are the responsibility of the company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 , based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 9, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington February 9, 2017 35 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 8,658 $ 14,557 $ 15,890 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) (241 ) 596 2,371 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization, including capitalized content costs 4,746 6,281 8,116 Stock-based compensation 1,497 2,119 2,975 Other operating expense, net 129 155 160 Other expense (income), net 59 250 (20 ) Deferred income taxes (316 ) 81 (246 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (6 ) (119 ) (829 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (1,193 ) (2,187 ) (1,426 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (1,039 ) (1,755 ) (3,367 ) Accounts payable 1,759 4,294 5,030 Accrued expenses and other 706 913 1,724 Additions to unearned revenue 4,433 7,401 11,931 Amortization of previously unearned revenue (3,692 ) (6,109 ) (9,976 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 6,842 11,920 16,443 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net (4,893 ) (4,589 ) (6,737 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (979 ) (795 ) (116 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 3,349 3,025 4,733 Purchases of marketable securities (2,542 ) (4,091 ) (7,756 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (5,065 ) (6,450 ) (9,876 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 6 119 829 Proceeds from long-term debt and other 6,359 353 621 Repayments of long-term debt and other (513 ) (1,652 ) (354 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (1,285 ) (2,462 ) (3,860 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (135 ) (121 ) (147 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 4,432 (3,763 ) (2,911 ) Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (310 ) (374 ) (212 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,899 1,333 3,444 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 14,557 $ 15,890 $ 19,334 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 91 $ 325 $ 290 Cash paid for interest on capital and finance lease obligations 86 153 206 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds 177 273 412 Property and equipment acquired under capital leases 4,008 4,717 5,704 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit leases 920 544 1,209 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net product sales $ 70,080 $ 79,268 $ 94,665 Net service sales 18,908 27,738 41,322 Total net sales 88,988 107,006 135,987 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 62,752 71,651 88,265 Fulfillment 10,766 13,410 17,619 Marketing 4,332 5,254 7,233 Technology and content 9,275 12,540 16,085 General and administrative 1,552 1,747 2,432 Other operating expense, net 133 171 167 Total operating expenses 88,810 104,773 131,801 Operating income 178 2,233 4,186 Interest income 39 50 100 Interest expense (210 ) (459 ) (484 ) Other income (expense), net (118 ) (256 ) 90 Total non-operating income (expense) (289 ) (665 ) (294 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (111 ) 1,568 3,892 Provision for income taxes (167 ) (950 ) (1,425 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 37 (22 ) (96 ) Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 596 $ 2,371 Basic earnings per share $ (0.52 ) $ 1.28 $ 5.01 Diluted earnings per share $ (0.52 ) $ 1.25 $ 4.90 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 462 467 474 Diluted 462 477 484 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 596 $ 2,371 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $(3), $10, and $(49) (325 ) (210 ) (279 ) Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $1, $(5), and $(12) 2 (7 ) 9 Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $(1), $0, and $0 (3 ) 5 8 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (1 ) (2 ) 17 Total other comprehensive income (loss) (326 ) (212 ) (262 ) Comprehensive income (loss) $ (567 ) $ 384 $ 2,109 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2015 2016 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 15,890 $ 19,334 Marketable securities 3,918 6,647 Inventories 10,243 11,461 Accounts receivable, net and other 5,654 8,339 Total current assets 35,705 45,781 Property and equipment, net 21,838 29,114 Goodwill 3,759 3,784 Other assets 3,445 4,723 Total assets $ 64,747 $ 83,402 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 20,397 $ 25,309 Accrued expenses and other 10,372 13,739 Unearned revenue 3,118 4,768 Total current liabilities 33,887 43,816 Long-term debt 8,227 7,694 Other long-term liabilities 9,249 12,607 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 494 and 500 Outstanding shares — 471 and 477 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (1,837 ) (1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 13,394 17,186 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (723 ) (985 ) Retained earnings 2,545 4,916 Total stockholders’ equity 13,384 19,285 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 64,747 $ 83,402 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2014 459 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 9,573 $ (185 ) $ 2,190 $ 9,746 Net loss — — — — — (241 ) (241 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (326 ) — (326 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 2 — — 2 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 6 — — 6 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 1,510 — — 1,510 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 44 — — 44 Balance as of December 31, 2014 465 5 (1,837 ) 11,135 (511 ) 1,949 10,741 Net income — — — — — 596 596 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (212 ) — (212 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 4 — — 4 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 119 — — 119 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 2,131 — — 2,131 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 5 — — 5 Balance as of December 31, 2015 471 5 (1,837 ) 13,394 (723 ) 2,545 13,384 Net income — — — — — 2,371 2,371 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (262 ) — (262 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 1 — — 1 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 829 — — 829 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 2,962 — — 2,962 Balance as of December 31, 2016 477 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 17,186 $ (985 ) $ 4,916 $ 19,285 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through our AWS segment, which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 11—Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the allocation of stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense, net” to segment results within “Note 11 — Segment Information.” These revised segment results reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s business performance and manages its operations. In Q1 2016, current deferred tax assets and current deferred tax liabilities were reclassified as non-current, and capitalized debt issuance costs were reclassified from “Other assets” to “Long-term debt” as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the amortization period of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. In 2014, we excluded stock awards of 17 million . 41 Table of Contents The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 462 467 474 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards — 10 10 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 462 477 484 Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of our digital devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo, are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud services and free trial memberships to other services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music, Prime Photos, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we will update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed fees, a percentage of seller revenues, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier or the customer. Amazon’s electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $147 million , $153 million , and $156 million as of December 31, 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Additions to the allowance were $1.1 billion , $1.3 billion , and $1.5 billion , and deductions to the allowance were $1.1 billion , $1.3 billion , and $1.5 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Total net sales.” 42 Table of Contents Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including Prime Video and Prime Music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for advertising services, cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $3.3 billion , $3.8 billion , and $5.0 billion in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and development of new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure costs. Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. 43 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining to vest, and historical forfeiture experience. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains (losses) of $(127) million , $(266) million , and $21 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $(5) million , $0 million , and $67 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , and realized gains (losses) on marketable securities sales of $3 million , $(5) million , and $(8) million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. were $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2016 . Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. 44 Table of Contents For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , these warrants had a fair value of $16 million and $223 million , and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $(5) million , $0 million , and $67 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, sellers, and vendors. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , customer receivables, net, were $2.3 billion and $3.9 billion , seller receivables, net, were $337 million and $661 million , and vendor receivables, net, were $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $190 million , $189 million , and $237 million as of December 31, 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Additions to the allowance were $225 million , $289 million , and $451 million , and deductions to the allowance were $188 million , $290 million , and $403 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The allowance for loan losses related to our seller receivables was not material as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , we capitalized $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), and $511 million (including $94 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $559 million , $635 million , and $634 million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and 45 Table of Contents website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2016, and determined that goodwill is not impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2016 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; video and music content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content We obtain video and music content to be made available to customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions and generally have terms from one to seven years with fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee per title and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated viewing patterns over each title’s contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from one to seven years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. The production costs of internally developed content are capitalized only if persuasive evidence exists that the production will generate revenue. Prior to 2015, because we had limited history to support the economic benefits of our content, we generally expensed such costs as incurred. In 2015, we began capitalizing a portion of production costs as we have developed more experience to support that future revenue will be 46 Table of Contents earned. Capitalized internally developed costs are generally amortized to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $2.0 billion and $2.4 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and 47 Table of Contents AWS services. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $244 million and $499 million of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom . Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded losses of $98 million and $215 million in 2014 and 2015, and recorded a gain of $62 million in 2016 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of the revenue recognition guidance to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. As we evaluate the impact of this ASU, the more significant changes that we have identified relate to the timing of when we recognize revenue and the gross amount of revenue that we present. We expect timing changes to include Amazon-branded electronic devices sold through retailers, which will be recognized at the point of sale to the retailer rather than to end customers, and the unredeemed portion of our gift cards, which we will begin to recognize over the expected customer redemption period, which is substantially within nine months, rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. In addition, we anticipate that certain advertising services will be classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales. We are continuing to evaluate the impact this ASU, and related amendments and interpretive guidance, will have on our consolidated financial statements. We plan to adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018 with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as opposed to retrospectively adjusting prior periods. In July 2015, the FASB issued an ASU modifying the accounting for inventory. Under this ASU, the measurement principle for inventory will change from lower of cost or market value to lower of cost and net realizable value. The ASU defines net realizable value as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The ASU is applicable to inventory that is accounted for under the first-in, first-out method and is effective for reporting periods after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes and requiring all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as non-current on the consolidated balance sheets. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2016 and retrospectively adjusted prior periods. Upon adoption, current deferred tax assets of $769 million and current deferred tax liabilities of $13 million in our December 31, 2015 consolidated balance sheet were reclassified as non-current. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than 12 months, in addition to those currently recorded, on our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation of leases within the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows will be generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact and expect the ASU will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, primarily to the consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for stock-based compensation and requiring excess tax benefits and deficiencies to be recognized as a component of income tax expense rather than equity. This guidance also requires excess tax benefits and deficiencies to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows and allows an entity to make an accounting policy election to either estimate expected forfeitures or to account for them as they occur. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU in the first quarter of 2017 by recording the cumulative impact of applying this guidance to retained earnings, which we estimate will increase by approximately $700 million , and we will continue to estimate expected forfeitures. 48 Table of Contents The inclusion of excess tax benefits and deficiencies as a component of our income tax expense will increase volatility within our provision for income taxes as the amount of excess tax benefits or deficiencies from stock-based compensation awards are dependent on our stock price at the date the awards vest. Based on our current stock price, we would expect this change to have a material impact to our provision for income taxes. As a measure of sensitivity, had we adopted this ASU at the beginning of 2016, our income tax expense would have decreased by approximately $750 million , which reflects the amount of excess tax benefits generated during the year ended December 31, 2016. In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact and expect the ASU will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the statement of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be included within cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. The ASU is effective retrospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2015 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 6,201 $ — $ — $ 6,201 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 8,025 — — 8,025 Equity securities 4 11 — 15 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 49 — — 49 U.S. government and agency securities 5,171 1 (5 ) 5,167 Corporate debt securities 479 — (2 ) 477 Asset-backed securities 118 — (1 ) 117 Other fixed income securities 42 — — 42 $ 20,089 $ 12 $ (8 ) $ 20,093 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (285 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 19,808 49 Table of Contents December 31, 2016 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 6,883 $ — $ — $ 6,883 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,940 — — 11,940 Equity securities 20 31 — 51 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 337 — — 337 U.S. government and agency securities 4,821 2 (7 ) 4,816 Corporate debt securities 2,105 1 (2 ) 2,104 Asset-backed securities 355 — (2 ) 353 Other fixed income securities 97 — — 97 $ 26,558 $ 34 $ (11 ) $ 26,581 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (600 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 25,981 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Realized gains $ 8 $ 2 $ 3 Realized losses 5 7 11 The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2016 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 16,532 $ 16,531 Due after one year through five years 2,766 2,760 Due after five years through ten years 203 202 Due after ten years 155 154 Total $ 19,656 $ 19,647 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 50 Table of Contents Note 3—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 9,770 $ 13,998 Equipment and internal-use software (2) 18,417 25,989 Other corporate assets 334 649 Construction in progress 1,532 1,805 Gross property and equipment 30,053 42,441 Total accumulated depreciation (1) 8,215 13,327 Total property and equipment, net $ 21,838 $ 29,114 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. (2) Includes internal-use software of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $3.6 billion , $4.9 billion , and $6.4 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $1.5 billion , $2.7 billion , and $3.8 billion for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $12.0 billion and $17.0 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $5.4 billion and $8.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $2.0 billion and $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $199 million and $361 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Note 4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisition Activity On September 25, 2014 , we acquired Twitch Interactive, Inc. (“Twitch”) for approximately $842 million in cash, as adjusted for the assumption of options and other items. We acquired Twitch because of its user community and the live streaming experience it provides. During 2014, we acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $20 million . The primary reason for our other 2014 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. During 2015 and 2016 , we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $690 million and $103 million . The primary reason for these acquisitions, none of which were individually material to our consolidated financial statements, was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. 51 Table of Contents Purchase Price Allocation The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): December 31, 2014 2015 2016 Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 813 $ 599 $ 81 Stock options assumed 44 5 — Indemnification holdback 5 86 22 $ 862 $ 690 $ 103 Allocation Goodwill $ 707 $ 482 $ 60 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 23 3 2 Contract-based 1 1 1 Technology-based 33 208 53 Customer-related 173 18 1 230 230 57 Property and equipment 16 4 3 Deferred tax assets 64 55 17 Other assets acquired 34 53 10 Deferred tax liabilities (88 ) (85 ) (18 ) Other liabilities assumed (101 ) (49 ) (26 ) $ 862 $ 690 $ 103 ___________________ (1) Intangible assets acquired in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 have estimated useful lives of between one and five years, one and six years, and one and seven years, with weighted-average amortization periods of five years, five years, and five years. The fair value of assumed stock options, estimated using the Black-Scholes model, and restricted stock units of $39 million , $9 million , and $0 million for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Pro forma results of operations for 2016 have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 52 Table of Contents Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2015 and 2016 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2015 $ 2,584 $ 735 $ — $ 3,319 Segment reallocation—January 1, 2015 (1) (606 ) — 606 — New acquisitions 41 18 423 482 Other adjustments (2) (7 ) (34 ) (1 ) (42 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2015 2,012 719 1,028 3,759 New acquisitions 30 13 17 60 Other adjustments (2) 2 (38 ) 1 (35 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2016 $ 2,044 $ 694 $ 1,046 $ 3,784 ___________________ (1) In conjunction with the change in reportable segments in the first quarter of 2015 to include the AWS segment, we reallocated goodwill on a relative fair value basis. (2) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ 502 $ (252 ) $ 250 $ 499 $ (299 ) $ 200 4.6 Contract-based 331 (174 ) 157 397 (212 ) 185 4.3 Technology- and content-based 683 (268 ) 415 705 (353 ) 352 4.6 Customer-related 331 (161 ) 170 299 (182 ) 117 2.7 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 1,847 $ (855 ) $ 992 $ 1,900 $ (1,046 ) $ 854 4.3 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $215 million , $270 million , and $287 million in 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2016 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2017 $ 264 2018 203 2019 170 2020 103 2021 38 Thereafter 76 $ 854 53 Table of Contents Note 5—LONG-TERM DEBT In November 2012 and December 2014, we issued $3.0 billion and $6.0 billion of unsecured senior notes, of which $8.3 billion is outstanding, as described in the table below (collectively, the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , the unamortized discount on the Notes was $97 million and $90 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings on our credit facility, of $312 million and $588 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 1.20% Notes due on November 29, 2017 (1) 1,000 1,000 2.60% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 1,000 3.30% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 2.50% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 3.80% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 4.80% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 4.95% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 Credit Facility — 495 Other long-term debt 312 93 Total debt 8,562 8,838 Less current portion of long-term debt (238 ) (1,056 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 8,324 $ 7,782 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rates of the 2017 and 2022 Notes were 1.38% and 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December . We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the Notes are used for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $8.5 billion and $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , which is based on quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt as of those dates. In October 2016, we entered into a $500 million secured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables . The Credit Facility is available for a term of three years , bears interest at the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus 1.65% , and has a commitment fee of 0.50% on the undrawn portion. There was $495 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016 , which had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.3% as of December 31, 2016 . As of December 31, 2016 , we have pledged $579 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2016. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.7% and 3.4% as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . 54 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2016 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2017 $ 1,056 2018 37 2019 1,278 2020 217 2021 1,000 Thereafter 5,250 $ 8,838 In May 2016, we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $3.0 billion . This Credit Agreement replaces the prior credit agreement entered into in September 2014. The Credit Agreement has a term of three years , but it may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders . The initial interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.60% , with a commitment fee of 0.05% on the undrawn portion of the credit facility, under our current credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded these rates could increase to as much as LIBOR plus 1.00% and 0.09% , respectively. There were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreements as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . Note 6—OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 4,212 $ 5,080 Long-term finance lease obligations 1,736 2,439 Construction liabilities 378 714 Tax contingencies 932 1,395 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 407 392 Other 1,584 2,587 Total other long-term liabilities $ 9,249 $ 12,607 Capital and Finance Leases Certain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 Gross capital lease obligations $ 9,406 Less imputed interest (329 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 9,077 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (3,997 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 5,080 We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liabilities.” As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): 55 Table of Contents December 31, 2016 Gross finance lease obligations $ 3,233 Less imputed interest (650 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 2,583 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (144 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 2,439 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax Contingencies We have recorded reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These reserves primarily relate to transfer pricing, research and development credits, and state income taxes, and are presented net of offsetting deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits. See “Note 10—Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. 56 Table of Contents Note 7—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, and renewable energy facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $961 million , $1.1 billion , and $1.4 billion for 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2016 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 1,343 $ 312 $ 1,551 $ 463 $ 1,246 $ 7,911 $ 12,826 Capital lease obligations, including interest (1) 3,910 3,008 1,662 411 190 225 9,406 Finance lease obligations, including interest (2) 234 244 247 250 252 2,006 3,233 Operating leases 1,317 1,231 1,106 1,030 896 3,930 9,510 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 655 590 303 96 43 23 1,710 Other commitments (4) (5) 1,025 824 621 493 365 3,071 6,399 Total commitments $ 8,484 $ 6,209 $ 5,490 $ 2,743 $ 2,992 $ 17,166 $ 43,084 ___________________ (1) Excluding interest, current capital lease obligations of $3.0 billion and $4.0 billion are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , and $4.2 billion and $5.1 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . (2) Excluding interest, current finance lease obligations of $99 million and $144 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , and $1.7 billion and $2.4 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities and other” as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 . (3) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (4) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements and equipment lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (5) Excludes $1.7 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $418 million and $715 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt relating to certain international operations, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions. Suppliers During 2016 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Other Contingencies In 2016, we determined that we processed and delivered orders of consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act or other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review is ongoing and we have voluntarily reported these orders to the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. We intend to cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS 57 Table of Contents with respect to their review, which may result in the imposition of penalties. For additional information, see 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” Our company-sponsored research and development expense is set forth within “Technology and content” in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements of Operations.” The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, and physically visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo devices, and we develop and produce media content. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on tens of millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington. Additionally, we own and lease corporate office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, warehouse operations, data center, customer service, physical stores, and other facilities, principally in North America, Europe, and Asia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 17 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (1) (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 74,452 $ 88,988 $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 Operating income $ 745 $ 178 $ 2,233 $ 4,186 $ 4,106 Net income (loss) $ 274 $ (241 ) $ 596 $ 2,371 $ 3,033 Basic earnings per share (2) $ 0.60 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.28 $ 5.01 $ 6.32 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.59 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.25 $ 4.90 $ 6.15 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 457 462 467 474 480 Diluted 465 462 477 484 493 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (3) $ 5,553 $ 6,848 $ 12,039 $ 17,272 $ 18,434 December 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 39,528 $ 53,618 $ 64,747 $ 83,402 $ 131,310 Total long-term obligations $ 6,810 $ 14,794 $ 17,477 $ 20,301 $ 45,718 ___________________ (1) We acquired Whole Foods Market on August 28, 2017. The results of Whole Foods Market have been included in our results of operation from the date of acquisition. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. (2) For further discussion of earnings per share, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (3) As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to reclassify excess tax benefits of $78 million, $6 million, $119 million, and $829 million in 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 from financing activities to operating activities. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies — Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted” for additional information. 18 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 20 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2017 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $180 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, the applicability of special tax regimes, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies, changes to our existing businesses and operations, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments and how they are financed, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations. In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax Act”). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the 2017 Tax Act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The 2017 Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The 2017 Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. We are also currently subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment (“NOPAs”) from the IRS for transactions undertaken in the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer 21 Table of Contents pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and we have been contesting the matter in U.S. Tax Court. On March 23, 2017, the U.S. Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised in the IRS NOPAs. The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs in determining transfer pricing adjustments in 2005 and 2006 for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. On September 29, 2017, the IRS filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. If the Tax Court decision were reversed on appeal or if the IRS were to successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature to the NOPAs for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. On October 4, 2017, the European Commission announced its decision that determinations by the tax authorities in Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules on state aid. This decision orders Luxembourg to calculate and recover additional taxes from us for the period May 2006 through June 2014. We believe this decision to be without merit and will consider our legal options, including an appeal. In December 2017, Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’s decision. While the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately €250 million, plus interest, the actual amount of additional taxes subject to recovery is to be calculated by the Luxembourg tax authorities in accordance with the European Commission’s guidance. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies — Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted,” is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 12,039 $ 17,272 $ 18,434 Investing activities (6,450 ) (9,876 ) (27,819 ) Financing activities (3,882 ) (3,740 ) 9,860 Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $ 19.8 billion , $26.0 billion , and $31.0 billion as of December 31, 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $7.3 billion , $9.1 billion , and $11.1 billion , as of December 31, 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $12.0 billion , $17.3 billion , and $18.4 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal-use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2016 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. The increase in operating cash flow in 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 22 Table of Contents Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(6.5) billion , $(9.9) billion , and $(27.8) billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , with the variability caused primarily by cash paid for acquisitions, our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $ 4.6 billion , $ 6.7 billion , and $10.1 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), during all three periods. Capital expenditures included $528 million , $417 million , and $311 million for internal-use software and website development in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $795 million , $116 million , and $14.0 billion . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(3.9) billion , $(3.7) billion , and $9.9 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other. Principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other were $4.2 billion , $4.4 billion , and $6.4 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $4.7 billion , $5.7 billion , and $9.6 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , with the increase reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $353 million , $621 million , and $16.2 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . During 2017, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $16.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in seven tranches maturing in 2020 through 2057. The proceeds from notes issued in August 2017 (the “August 2017 Notes”) were used to fund the consideration for the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, to repay the 1.200% Notes due November 2017, and for general corporate purposes. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. We had no borrowings outstanding under our $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and $592 million of borrowings outstanding under our $600 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of December 31, 2017 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional information. In 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , we recorded net tax provisions of $950 million , $1.4 billion , and $769 million . The 2017 Tax Act includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to invest most or all of these earnings, as well as our capital in these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur any significant, additional taxes related to such amounts. As of December 31, 2017, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $9.6 billion. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. The 2017 Tax Act extended through 2026 and enhanced the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $273 million , $412 million , and $957 million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . As of December 31, 2017 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $226 million and we had approximately $855 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits we expect cash paid for taxes to increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with its October 2017 decision against us on state aid, the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately €250 million, plus interest. The actual amount of additional taxes subject to recovery is to be calculated by the Luxembourg tax authorities in accordance with the European Commission's guidance. Once the recovery amount is computed by Luxembourg, we anticipate funding it, including interest, into escrow, where it will remain pending conclusion of all appeals. We may be required to fund into escrow an amount in excess of the estimated recovery amount announced by the European Commission. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $600 million and $1.3 billion . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 23 Table of Contents —Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $13.0 billion as of December 31, 2017 . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales and amortized over the life of the membership according to the estimated delivery of services. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net Sales: North America $ 63,708 $ 79,785 $ 106,110 International 35,418 43,983 54,297 AWS 7,880 12,219 17,459 Consolidated $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 25 % 25 % 33 % International 6 24 23 AWS 70 55 43 Consolidated 20 27 31 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 26 % 25 % 33 % International 21 26 23 AWS 70 55 43 Consolidated 26 28 31 Net sales mix: North America 60 % 59 % 60 % International 33 32 30 AWS 7 9 10 Consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % Sales increased 27% and 31% in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(5.2) billion , $(550) million , and $210 million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 25% and 33% in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and, in 2017, the impact of the acquisition of Whole Foods Market. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased 24% and 23% in 2016 , and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(5.0) billion , $(489) million , and $138 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . 25 Table of Contents AWS sales increased 55 % and 43 % in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 1,425 $ 2,361 $ 2,837 International (699 ) (1,283 ) (3,062 ) AWS 1,507 3,108 4,331 Consolidated $ 2,233 $ 4,186 $ 4,106 Operating income was $2.2 billion , $4.2 billion , and $4.1 billion for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, partially offset by increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $30 million , $27 million , and $(4) million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased levels of operating expenses to expand our fulfillment network and spending on technology and content and marketing efforts, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss by $(278) million , $89 million , and $(85) million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure and sales and marketing expenses and related payroll, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $264 million , $(5) million , and $(53) million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . 26 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 71,651 $ 88,265 $ 111,934 Fulfillment 13,410 17,619 25,249 Marketing 5,254 7,233 10,069 Technology and content 12,540 16,085 22,620 General and administrative 1,747 2,432 3,674 Other operating expense, net 171 167 214 Total operating expenses $ 104,773 $ 131,801 $ 173,760 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 14 % 23 % 27 % Fulfillment 25 31 43 Marketing 21 38 39 Technology and content 35 28 41 General and administrative 13 39 51 Other operating expense, net 28 (2 ) 28 Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 67.0 % 64.9 % 62.9 % Fulfillment 12.5 13.0 14.2 Marketing 4.9 5.3 5.7 Technology and content 11.7 11.8 12.7 General and administrative 1.6 1.8 2.1 Other operating expense, net 0.2 0.1 0.1 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery center and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery center and transportation costs, were $11.5 billion , $16.2 billion , and $21.7 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. 27 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, and costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, Associates program, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to payroll and related expenses, as well as increased spending on online marketing channels. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our websites, curation and display of products and services made available on our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS, as well as these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings, and an increase in spending on technology infrastructure. For 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , we capitalized $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), $511 million (including $94 million of stock-based compensation), and $395 million (including $84 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $635 million , $634 million , and $545 million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2016 and 2017 , compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. 28 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $171 million , $167 million , and $214 million during 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $50 million , $100 million , and $202 million during 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $459 million , $484 million , and $848 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our capital and finance lease arrangements and long-term debt. Our long-term debt was $7.7 billion and $24.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Our other long-term liabilities were $12.6 billion and $21.0 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt and Note 6—Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(256) million , $90 million , and $346 million during 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign currency and equity warrant valuation. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, foreign currency gains (losses), tax law developments (including changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices), and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. The 2017 Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of 2017, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax. The 2017 Tax Act also enhanced and extended through 2026 the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualified property. We have not completed our determination of the accounting implications of the 2017 Tax Act on our tax accruals. However, we have reasonably estimated the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. We recorded a provisional tax benefit for the impact of the 2017 Tax Act of approximately $789 million. This amount is primarily comprised of the remeasurement of federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax on the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of this one-time tax is not material. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $950 million , $1.4 billion , and $769 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Our provision for income taxes in 2016 was higher than in 2015 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may realize a tax benefit, an increase in tax amortization deductions, and a decline in the proportion of nondeductible expenses. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Our provision for income taxes in 2017 was lower than in 2016 primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the provisional favorable effect of the 2017 Tax Act, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments. We regularly assess whether it is more likely than not that we will realize our deferred tax assets in each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. In performing this assessment with respect to each jurisdiction, we review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains, and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In Q2 2017, we 29 Table of Contents recognized an estimated charge to tax expense of $600 million to record a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets in Luxembourg. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. The 2017 Tax Act enhanced and extended through 2026 the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property. As of December 31, 2017 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $226 million and we had approximately $855 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(22) million , $(96) million , and $(4) million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The primary components of this activity during 2015, 2016, and 2017 were our equity-method investment losses during the periods and impairments recorded in 2016. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to reclassify excess tax benefits of $119 million and $829 million in 2015 and 2016 from financing activities to operating activities. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives,” which both are included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 12,039 $ 17,272 $ 18,434 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (4,589 ) (6,737 ) (10,058 ) Free cash flow $ 7,450 $ 10,535 $ 8,376 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (6,450 ) $ (9,876 ) $ (27,819 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,882 ) $ (3,740 ) $ 9,860 30 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 12,039 $ 17,272 $ 18,434 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (4,589 ) (6,737 ) (10,058 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (2,462 ) (3,860 ) (4,799 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (121 ) (147 ) (200 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 4,867 $ 6,528 $ 3,377 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (6,450 ) $ (9,876 ) $ (27,819 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,882 ) $ (3,740 ) $ 9,860 Free Cash Flow Less Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which is included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 12,039 $ 17,272 $ 18,434 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (4,589 ) (6,737 ) (10,058 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (4,717 ) (5,704 ) (9,637 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (121 ) (147 ) (200 ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ 2,612 $ 4,684 $ (1,461 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (6,450 ) $ (9,876 ) $ (27,819 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,882 ) $ (3,740 ) $ 9,860 All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 31 Table of Contents Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year periods. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2017 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 107,006 $ 5,167 $ 112,173 $ 135,987 $ 550 $ 136,537 $ 177,866 $ (210 ) $ 177,656 Operating expenses 104,773 5,183 109,956 131,801 660 132,461 173,760 (352 ) 173,408 Operating income 2,233 (16 ) 2,217 4,186 (110 ) 4,076 4,106 142 4,248 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Guidance We provided guidance on February 1, 2018, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of February 1, 2018, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2017 (in millions, except percentages): 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2017 Money market funds $ 11,343 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 11,343 $ 11,343 Weighted-average interest rate 0.61 % 0.61 % Corporate debt securities 2,717 868 484 155 25 — 4,249 4,257 Weighted-average interest rate 1.79 % 2.10 % 2.27 % 2.23 % 2.00 % 1.93 % U.S. government and agency securities 2,995 1,476 310 54 1 — 4,836 4,823 Weighted-average interest rate 1.49 % 1.98 % 2.06 % 2.41 % 2.64 % 1.69 % Asset backed securities 341 273 262 31 — — 907 905 Weighted-average interest rate 1.86 % 2.29 % 2.24 % 2.05 % 2.11 % Foreign government and agency securities 405 216 — — — — 621 620 Weighted-average interest rate 1.75 % 1.93 % 1.81 % Other securities 159 99 43 31 — — 332 338 Weighted-average interest rate 1.15 % 1.84 % 2.24 % 2.48 % 1.62 % $ 17,960 $ 2,932 $ 1,099 $ 271 $ 26 $ — $ 22,288 Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ 22,286 33 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2017 , we had $24.9 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions): 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 $ 1,000 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 $ 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 $ 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 $ 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 $ 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 $ 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 $ 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 $ 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 $ 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 $ 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 $ 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 $ 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 $ 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 $ 2,250 Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $26.4 billion as of December 31, 2017 . Foreign Exchange Risk During 2017 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 30% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused websites, and from www.amazon.ca and www.amazon.com.mx (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the period compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales increased by $137 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2017 , of $11.1 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $555 million, $1.1 billion, and $2.2 billion. All investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2017 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $280 million, $600 million, and $1.3 billion, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2017 , our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $737 million. We record our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility, and represents $415 million of our investments as of December 31, 2017 . We evaluate our equity and equity warrant investments in private companies for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 34 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 36 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 37 Consolidated Statements of Operations 38 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 39 Consolidated Balance Sheets 40 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 41 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 35 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 and the related notes (collectively referred to as the ‘financial statements’). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2017 and 2016 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 , based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 1, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1996. Seattle, Washington February 1, 2018 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 14,557 $ 15,890 $ 19,334 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 596 2,371 3,033 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization, including capitalized content costs 6,281 8,116 11,478 Stock-based compensation 2,119 2,975 4,215 Other operating expense, net 155 160 202 Other expense (income), net 250 (20 ) (292 ) Deferred income taxes 81 (246 ) (29 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (2,187 ) (1,426 ) (3,583 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (1,755 ) (3,367 ) (4,786 ) Accounts payable 4,294 5,030 7,175 Accrued expenses and other 913 1,724 283 Unearned revenue 1,292 1,955 738 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 12,039 17,272 18,434 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (5,387 ) (7,804 ) (11,955 ) Proceeds from property and equipment incentives 798 1,067 1,897 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (795 ) (116 ) (13,972 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 3,025 4,733 9,988 Purchases of marketable securities (4,091 ) (7,756 ) (13,777 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (6,450 ) (9,876 ) (27,819 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from long-term debt and other 353 621 16,231 Repayments of long-term debt and other (1,652 ) (354 ) (1,372 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (2,462 ) (3,860 ) (4,799 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (121 ) (147 ) (200 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (3,882 ) (3,740 ) 9,860 Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (374 ) (212 ) 713 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,333 3,444 1,188 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 15,890 $ 19,334 $ 20,522 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 325 $ 290 $ 328 Cash paid for interest on capital and finance lease obligations 153 206 319 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds 273 412 957 Property and equipment acquired under capital leases 4,717 5,704 9,637 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit leases 544 1,209 3,541 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net product sales $ 79,268 $ 94,665 $ 118,573 Net service sales 27,738 41,322 59,293 Total net sales 107,006 135,987 177,866 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 71,651 88,265 111,934 Fulfillment 13,410 17,619 25,249 Marketing 5,254 7,233 10,069 Technology and content 12,540 16,085 22,620 General and administrative 1,747 2,432 3,674 Other operating expense, net 171 167 214 Total operating expenses 104,773 131,801 173,760 Operating income 2,233 4,186 4,106 Interest income 50 100 202 Interest expense (459 ) (484 ) (848 ) Other income (expense), net (256 ) 90 346 Total non-operating income (expense) (665 ) (294 ) (300 ) Income before income taxes 1,568 3,892 3,806 Provision for income taxes (950 ) (1,425 ) (769 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (22 ) (96 ) (4 ) Net income $ 596 $ 2,371 $ 3,033 Basic earnings per share $ 1.28 $ 5.01 $ 6.32 Diluted earnings per share $ 1.25 $ 4.90 $ 6.15 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 467 474 480 Diluted 477 484 493 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net income $ 596 $ 2,371 $ 3,033 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $10, $(49), and $5 (210 ) (279 ) 533 Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $(5), $(12), and $5 (7 ) 9 (39 ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $0, $0, and $0 5 8 7 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (2 ) 17 (32 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) (212 ) (262 ) 501 Comprehensive income $ 384 $ 2,109 $ 3,534 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2016 2017 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 19,334 $ 20,522 Marketable securities 6,647 10,464 Inventories 11,461 16,047 Accounts receivable, net and other 8,339 13,164 Total current assets 45,781 60,197 Property and equipment, net 29,114 48,866 Goodwill 3,784 13,350 Other assets 4,723 8,897 Total assets $ 83,402 $ 131,310 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 25,309 $ 34,616 Accrued expenses and other 13,739 18,170 Unearned revenue 4,768 5,097 Total current liabilities 43,816 57,883 Long-term debt 7,694 24,743 Other long-term liabilities 12,607 20,975 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 500 and 507 Outstanding shares — 477 and 484 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (1,837 ) (1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 17,186 21,389 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (985 ) (484 ) Retained earnings 4,916 8,636 Total stockholders’ equity 19,285 27,709 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 83,402 $ 131,310 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2015 465 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 11,135 $ (511 ) $ 1,949 $ 10,741 Net income — — — — — 596 596 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (212 ) — (212 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 4 — — 4 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 119 — — 119 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 2,131 — — 2,131 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity — — — 5 — — 5 Balance as of December 31, 2015 471 5 (1,837 ) 13,394 (723 ) 2,545 13,384 Net income — — — — — 2,371 2,371 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (262 ) — (262 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 1 — — 1 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 829 — — 829 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 2,962 — — 2,962 Balance as of December 31, 2016 477 5 (1,837 ) 17,186 (985 ) 4,916 19,285 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to stock-based compensation — — — — — 687 687 Net income — — — — — 3,033 3,033 Other comprehensive income — — — — 501 — 501 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — 1 — — 1 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 4,202 — — 4,202 Balance as of December 31, 2017 484 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 21,389 $ (484 ) $ 8,636 $ 27,709 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through our AWS segment, which offers a broad set of global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. In addition, we provide services, such as fulfillment, publishing, certain digital content subscriptions, advertising, and co-branded credit cards. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 11—Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation of “Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities” on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the allocation of stock-based compensation to “Other operating expense, net” in the segment results within “Note 11 - Segment Information.” These revised segment results reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s business performance and manages its operations. In addition, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were reclassified from “Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities” to “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities” on our consolidated statements of cash flows as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the amortization period of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. 42 Table of Contents The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 467 474 480 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 10 10 13 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 477 484 493 Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of certain of our digital devices are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music, Prime Photos, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed fees, a percentage of seller revenues, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier or the customer. Amazon’s electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $153 million , $156 million , and $62 million as of December 31, 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Additions to the allowance were $1.3 billion , $1.5 billion , and $1.8 billion , and deductions to the allowance were $1.3 billion , $1.5 billion , and $1.9 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Total net sales.” 43 Table of Contents Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for advertising services, cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, and television advertising. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $3.8 billion , $5.0 billion , and $6.3 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our websites, curation and display of products and services made available on our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS, as well as these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development costs, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. 44 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining to vest, and historical forfeiture experience. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains (losses) of $(266) million , $21 million , and $247 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $0 million , $67 million , and $109 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , and realized gains (losses) on marketable securities sales of $(5) million , $(8) million , and $(7) million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax Act”) includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to invest most or all of these earnings, as well as our capital in these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur any significant, additional taxes related to such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. 45 Table of Contents For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , these warrants had a fair value of $223 million and $441 million , and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $0 million , $67 million , and $109 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, sellers, and vendors. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , customer receivables, net, were $3.9 billion and $6.4 billion , seller receivables, net, were $661 million and $692 million , and vendor receivables, net, were $2.0 billion and $2.6 billion . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $189 million , $237 million , and $348 million as of December 31, 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Additions to the allowance were $289 million , $451 million , and $626 million , and deductions to the allowance were $290 million , $403 million , and $515 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The allowance for loan losses related to our seller receivables was not material as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , we capitalized $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), $511 million (including $94 million of stock-based compensation), and $395 million (including $84 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $635 million , $634 million , and $545 million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction in our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with 46 Table of Contents property we have acquired under build-to-suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2017, and determined that goodwill is no t impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2017 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; video and music content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content We obtain video and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions, which include both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage patterns, which typically ranges from one to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. Capitalized production costs associated with our original content are limited by the amount of revenue we expect to earn, which results in a portion being 47 Table of Contents expensed as incurred. These capitalized costs are amortized to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $2.4 billion and $3.0 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $499 million and $1.0 billion of 48 Table of Contents unearned revenue as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . The amortization of previously unearned revenue was approximately $10.0 billion and $14.3 billion in 2016 and 2017 . Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom . Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded a loss of $215 million in 2015 and recorded gains of $62 million and $202 million in 2016 and 2017 . Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) modifying the accounting for inventory. Under this ASU, the measurement principle for inventory changed from lower of cost or market value to lower of cost and net realizable value. The ASU defines net realizable value as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The ASU is applicable to inventory that is accounted for under the first-in, first-out method. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2017 with no material impact to our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for stock-based compensation and requiring excess tax benefits and deficiencies to be recognized as a component of income tax expense rather than equity. The inclusion of excess tax benefits and deficiencies as a component of our income tax expense will increase volatility within our provision for income taxes as the amount of excess tax benefits or deficiencies from stock-based compensation awards depends on our stock price at the date the awards vest. This guidance also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows and allows an entity to make an accounting policy election to either estimate expected forfeitures or to account for them as they occur. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2017 by recording the cumulative impact through an increase in retained earnings of $687 million , and we will continue to estimate expected forfeitures. Additionally, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to reclassify excess tax benefits of $119 million and $829 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 from financing activities to operating activities. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We will adopt this ASU on January 1, 2018 with a cumulative adjustment that will increase retained earnings by approximately $650 million rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. The cumulative adjustment will primarily relate to unredeemed gift cards. We will begin to recognize revenue from estimated unredeemed gift cards over the expected customer redemption period, which is substantially within nine months, rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Other changes relate to Amazon-branded electronic devices sold through retailers, which will be recognized upon sale to the retailer rather than to end customers. We also will change how we recognize and classify Amazon Prime memberships, which are currently considered arrangements with multiple deliverables that are allocated among products sales and service sales. Upon adoption of the ASU, Amazon Prime memberships will be accounted for as a single performance obligation recognized ratably over the membership period and will be classified as service sales. Other changes that we have identified relate primarily to the presentation of revenue. Certain advertising services will be classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales, and sales of apps, in-app content, and certain digital media content will primarily be presented on a net basis. In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. We do not expect adoption of the ASU in Q1 2018 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than 12 months, in addition to those currently recorded, on our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation of leases within the consolidated statements of operations and 49 Table of Contents consolidated statements of cash flows will be generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We plan to adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact and expect the ASU will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, primarily to the consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018. We estimate the ASU will have an impact of approximately $250 million on our consolidated financial statements, including retained earnings and deferred taxes. This estimate takes into account valuation allowances that we anticipate recording against certain material deferred tax assets. Any change in our assessment of the likelihood of our ability to realize deferred tax assets will be reflected as an income tax benefit during the quarter of such change. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the statement of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be included within cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. The ASU is effective retrospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018. Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following tables summarize, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2016 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 6,883 $ — $ — $ 6,883 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,940 — — 11,940 Equity securities 20 31 — 51 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 337 — — 337 U.S. government and agency securities 4,821 2 (7 ) 4,816 Corporate debt securities 2,105 1 (2 ) 2,104 Asset-backed securities 355 — (2 ) 353 Other fixed income securities 97 — — 97 $ 26,558 $ 34 $ (11 ) $ 26,581 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (600 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 25,981 50 Table of Contents December 31, 2017 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 9,982 $ — $ — $ 9,982 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,343 — — 11,343 Equity securities 23 30 — 53 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 620 — — 620 U.S. government and agency securities 4,841 1 (19 ) 4,823 Corporate debt securities 4,265 1 (9 ) 4,257 Asset-backed securities 910 — (5 ) 905 Other fixed income securities 340 — (2 ) 338 $ 32,324 $ 32 $ (35 ) $ 32,321 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (1,335 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 30,986 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Realized gains $ 2 $ 3 $ 5 Realized losses 7 11 11 The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2017 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 17,293 $ 17,287 Due after one year through five years 4,149 4,129 Due after five years through ten years 302 300 Due after ten years 575 570 Total $ 22,319 $ 22,286 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 51 Table of Contents Note 3—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 13,998 $ 23,718 Equipment and internal-use software (2) 25,989 38,387 Other corporate assets 649 2,390 Construction in progress 1,805 4,078 Gross property and equipment 42,441 68,573 Total accumulated depreciation (1) 13,327 19,707 Total property and equipment, net $ 29,114 $ 48,866 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. (2) Includes internal-use software of $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $4.9 billion , $6.4 billion , and $8.8 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $2.7 billion , $3.8 billion , and $5.4 billion for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $17.0 billion and $26.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $8.5 billion and $13.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $2.9 billion and $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $361 million and $635 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Note 4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisition Activity During 2015 and 2016 , we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $690 million and $103 million . The primary reason for these acquisitions, none of which were individually material to our consolidated financial statements, was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. On May 12, 2017 , we acquired Souq Group Ltd. (“Souq”), an e-commerce company, for approximately $583 million , net of cash acquired, and on August 28, 2017, we acquired Whole Foods Market, a grocery store chain, for approximately $13.2 billion , net of cash acquired. Both acquisitions are intended to expand our retail presence. During 2017 , we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $204 million . The primary reason for our other 2017 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. The valuation of certain assets and liabilities in the Whole Foods Market acquisition is preliminary and subject to change. 52 Table of Contents Purchase Price Allocation The aggregate purchase price of the 2015 and 2016 acquisitions, and the Whole Foods Market and other 2017 acquisitions, which primarily includes the acquisition of Souq, was allocated as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Whole Foods Market Other 2017 Acquisitions Total Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 599 $ 81 $ 13,176 $ 683 $ 13,859 Stock options assumed 5 — — — — Indemnification holdback 86 22 — 104 104 $ 690 $ 103 $ 13,176 $ 787 $ 13,963 Allocation Goodwill $ 482 $ 60 $ 9,010 $ 491 $ 9,501 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 3 2 1,928 59 1,987 Contract-based 1 1 407 33 440 Technology-based 208 53 — 166 166 Customer-related 18 1 — 54 54 230 57 2,335 312 2,647 Property and equipment 4 3 3,794 16 3,810 Deferred tax assets 55 17 95 22 117 Other assets acquired 53 10 1,711 147 1,858 Long-term debt (3 ) (5 ) (1,158 ) (7 ) (1,165 ) Deferred tax liabilities (85 ) (18 ) (925 ) (36 ) (961 ) Other liabilities assumed (46 ) (21 ) (1,686 ) (158 ) (1,844 ) $ 690 $ 103 $ 13,176 $ 787 $ 13,963 ___________________ (1) Intangible assets acquired in 2015 , 2016 , and the other 2017 acquisitions have estimated useful lives of between one and six years, one and seven years, and one and seven years, with weighted-average amortization periods of five years, five years, and four years. Acquired intangible assets for Whole Foods Market have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years, with a weighted-average amortization period of twenty-three years, primarily driven by the Whole Foods Market trade name. The fair value of assumed stock options, estimated using the Black-Scholes model, and restricted stock units of $9 million , $0 million , and $0 million for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. 53 Table of Contents Pro Forma Financial Information - 2017 Acquisition Activity (unaudited) The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating loss of Whole Foods Market consolidated into our financial statements since the date of acquisition was $5.8 billion and $(24) million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The aggregate net sales and operating loss of other acquisitions consolidated into our financial statements since the respective dates of acquisition was $482 million and $(142) million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The following financial information, which excludes certain acquired companies for which the pro forma impact is not meaningful, presents our results as if the acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2017 had occurred on January 1, 2016 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2016 2017 Net sales $ 152,283 $ 187,890 Net income $ 2,148 $ 2,940 These pro forma results are based on estimates and assumptions, which we believe are reasonable. They are not the results that would have been realized had the acquisitions actually occurred on January 1, 2016 and are not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations in future periods. The pro forma results include adjustments related to purchase accounting, primarily interest expense related to the proceeds from the issuance of the August 2017 Notes used in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, depreciation of property and equipment, and amortization of intangible assets. Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2016 and 2017 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2016 $ 2,012 $ 719 $ 1,028 $ 3,759 New acquisitions 30 13 17 60 Other adjustments (1) 2 (38 ) 1 (35 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2016 2,044 694 1,046 3,784 New acquisitions (2) 9,115 368 18 9,501 Other adjustments (1) 6 46 13 65 Goodwill - December 31, 2017 $ 11,165 $ 1,108 $ 1,077 $ 13,350 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. (2) Primarily includes the acquisition of Whole Foods Market in the North America segment and Souq in the International segment. 54 Table of Contents Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ 499 $ (299 ) $ 200 $ 2,486 $ (418 ) $ 2,068 23.0 Contract-based 397 (212 ) 185 1,013 (213 ) 800 13.0 Technology- and content-based 705 (353 ) 352 640 (252 ) 388 4.4 Customer-related 299 (182 ) 117 283 (168 ) 115 2.1 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 1,900 $ (1,046 ) $ 854 $ 4,422 $ (1,051 ) $ 3,371 17.8 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $270 million , $287 million , and $366 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2017 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 $ 377 2019 337 2020 258 2021 214 2022 178 Thereafter 1,998 $ 3,362 55 Table of Contents Note 5—LONG-TERM DEBT As of December 31, 2017, we had $24.3 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”), including $17.0 billion of notes issued and assumed in connection with our August 2017 acquisition of Whole Foods Market. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , the net unamortized discount on the Notes was $90 million and $99 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings under our credit facility, of $588 million and $692 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 1.200% Notes due on November 29, 2017 $ 1,000 $ — 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 1,000 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 (3) — 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 (3) — 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 (3) — 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 (4) — 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 (3) — 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 (3) — 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 (3) — 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 (3) — 2,250 Credit Facility 495 592 Other long-term debt 93 100 Total debt 8,838 24,942 Less current portion of long-term debt (1,056 ) (100 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 7,782 $ 24,842 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rate of the 2022 Notes were 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . (3) Issued in August 2017, effective interest rates of the 2020, 2023, 2024, 2027, 2037, 2047, and 2057 Notes were 2.16% , 2.56% , 2.95% , 3.25% , 3.94% , 4.13% , and 4.33% . (4) Consists of $872 million of 2025 Notes issued in December 2017 in exchange for notes assumed in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market and $128 million of 2025 Notes issued by Whole Foods Market that did not participate in our December 2017 exchange offer. The effective interest rate of the 2025 Notes was 3.02% . Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December . Interest on the Notes issued in 2017 is payable semi-annually in arrears in February and August. Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the November 2012 and December 2014 Notes were used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the August 2017 Notes were used to fund the consideration for the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, to repay the 1.200% Notes due November 2017, and for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $8.7 billion and $25.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates. In October 2016, we entered into a $500 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables , which we subsequently increased to $600 million and may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is available for a term of three years , bears interest at the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus 1.65% , and has a commitment fee of 0.50% on the undrawn portion. There was $495 56 Table of Contents million and $592 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , which had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.3% and 2.7% as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . As of December 31, 2017 , we have pledged $686 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . In December 2017, we conducted an exchange offer related to the $1.0 billion 5.200% senior notes due 2025 assumed in our acquisition of Whole Foods Market. In connection with the exchange offer, we issued $872 million aggregate principal amount of new Amazon 5.200% senior notes due 2025, and $128 million aggregate principal amount of Whole Foods Market’s previously issued notes remained outstanding. We also amended the Whole Foods Market indenture to eliminate substantially all the restrictive covenants and certain events of default from the remaining Whole Foods Market notes. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.4% and 5.8% as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . As of December 31, 2017 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 $ 100 2019 1,334 2020 1,258 2021 1,000 2022 1,250 Thereafter 20,000 $ 24,942 In May 2016, we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $3.0 billion . The Credit Agreement has a term of three years , but it may be extended for up to three additional one -year terms if approved by the lenders. The initial interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.60% , with a commitment fee of 0.05% on the undrawn portion of the credit facility, under our current credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded these rates could increase to as much as LIBOR plus 1.00% and 0.09% , respectively. There were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreements as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . 57 Table of Contents Note 6—OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 5,080 $ 8,438 Long-term finance lease obligations 2,439 4,745 Construction liabilities 714 1,350 Tax contingencies 1,395 1,004 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 392 990 Other 2,587 4,448 Total other long-term liabilities $ 12,607 $ 20,975 Capital and Finance Leases Certain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 Gross capital lease obligations $ 14,811 Less imputed interest (534 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 14,277 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (5,839 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 8,438 We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liabilities.” As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 Gross finance lease obligations $ 6,265 Less imputed interest (1,238 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 5,027 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (282 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 4,745 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax Contingencies We have recorded reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These reserves primarily relate to transfer pricing, research and development credits, and state income taxes, and are presented net of offsetting deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits. See “Note 10—Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. 58 Table of Contents Note 7—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $1.1 billion , $1.4 billion , and $2.2 billion for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2017 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 967 $ 2,234 $ 2,111 $ 1,834 $ 2,050 $ 31,799 $ 40,995 Capital lease obligations, including interest (1) 6,084 4,788 2,590 557 262 530 14,811 Finance lease obligations, including interest (2) 445 460 466 476 472 3,946 6,265 Operating leases 2,427 2,376 2,258 2,039 1,813 11,935 22,848 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 3,527 3,561 3,195 3,039 2,922 7,956 24,200 Other commitments (4) (5) 1,584 1,016 733 571 438 4,744 9,086 Total commitments $ 15,034 $ 14,435 $ 11,353 $ 8,516 $ 7,957 $ 60,910 $ 118,205 ___________________ (1) Excluding interest, current capital lease obligations of $4.0 billion and $5.8 billion are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , and $5.1 billion and $8.4 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . (2) Excluding interest, current finance lease obligations of $144 million and $282 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , and $2.4 billion and $4.7 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . (3) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (4) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements and equipment lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (5) Excludes $2.3 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $715 million and $1.4 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. Suppliers During 2017 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Other Contingencies In 2016, we determined that we processed and delivered orders of consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act or other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review is ongoing and we have voluntarily reported these orders to the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. We intend to cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS 59 Table of Contents with respect to their review, which may result in the imposition of penalties. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. 72 Table of Contents 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_QuarterlyFinancialInformationDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition The entire disclosure for quarterly financial data. Includes, but is not limited to, tabular presentation of financial information for fiscal quarters, effect of year-end adjustments, and an explanation of matters or transactions that affect comparability of the information. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 270 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2126967 + Details Name: us-gaap_QuarterlyFinancialInformationTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 35 R21.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies (Policies) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Accounting Policies [Abstract] Segment Information We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. Prior Period Reclassifications Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation of “Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities” on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the allocation of stock-based compensation to “Other operating expense, net” in the segment results within “Note 11 - Segment Information.” These revised segment results reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s business performance and manages its operations. In addition, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were reclassified from “Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities” to “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities” on our consolidated statements of cash flows as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. Principles of Consolidation Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Use of Estimates Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the amortization period of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. Revenue Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of certain of our digital devices are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music, Prime Photos, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed fees, a percentage of seller revenues, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier or the customer. Amazon’s electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $153 million , $156 million , and $62 million as of December 31, 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Additions to the allowance were $1.3 billion , $1.5 billion , and $1.8 billion , and deductions to the allowance were $1.3 billion , $1.5 billion , and $1.9 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Total net sales.” Cost of Sales Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for advertising services, cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, and television advertising. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred Technology and Content Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our websites, curation and display of products and services made available on our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS, as well as these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development costs, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining to vest, and historical forfeiture experience. Other Operating Expense, Net Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains (losses) of $(266) million , $21 million , and $247 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $0 million , $67 million , and $109 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , and realized gains (losses) on marketable securities sales of $(5) million , $(8) million , and $(7) million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . Income Taxes Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax Act”) includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to invest most or all of these earnings, as well as our capital in these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur any significant, additional taxes related to such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , these warrants had a fair value of $223 million and $441 million , and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $0 million , $67 million , and $109 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, sellers, and vendors. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , customer receivables, net, were $3.9 billion and $6.4 billion , seller receivables, net, were $661 million and $692 million , and vendor receivables, net, were $2.0 billion and $2.6 billion . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction in our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Asset Retirement Obligations Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2017, and determined that goodwill is no t impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2017 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. Other Assets Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; video and music content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content Video and Music Content We obtain video and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions, which include both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage patterns, which typically ranges from one to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. Capitalized production costs associated with our original content are limited by the amount of revenue we expect to earn, which results in a portion being expensed as incurred. These capitalized costs are amortized to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. Investments Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Accrued Expenses and Other Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $2.4 billion and $3.0 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Foreign Currency Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom . Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted and Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) modifying the accounting for inventory. Under this ASU, the measurement principle for inventory changed from lower of cost or market value to lower of cost and net realizable value. The ASU defines net realizable value as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The ASU is applicable to inventory that is accounted for under the first-in, first-out method. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2017 with no material impact to our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for stock-based compensation and requiring excess tax benefits and deficiencies to be recognized as a component of income tax expense rather than equity. The inclusion of excess tax benefits and deficiencies as a component of our income tax expense will increase volatility within our provision for income taxes as the amount of excess tax benefits or deficiencies from stock-based compensation awards depends on our stock price at the date the awards vest. This guidance also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows and allows an entity to make an accounting policy election to either estimate expected forfeitures or to account for them as they occur. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2017 by recording the cumulative impact through an increase in retained earnings of $687 million , and we will continue to estimate expected forfeitures. Additionally, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to reclassify excess tax benefits of $119 million and $829 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 from financing activities to operating activities. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We will adopt this ASU on January 1, 2018 with a cumulative adjustment that will increase retained earnings by approximately $650 million rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. The cumulative adjustment will primarily relate to unredeemed gift cards. We will begin to recognize revenue from estimated unredeemed gift cards over the expected customer redemption period, which is substantially within nine months, rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Other changes relate to Amazon-branded electronic devices sold through retailers, which will be recognized upon sale to the retailer rather than to end customers. We also will change how we recognize and classify Amazon Prime memberships, which are currently considered arrangements with multiple deliverables that are allocated among products sales and service sales. Upon adoption of the ASU, Amazon Prime memberships will be accounted for as a single performance obligation recognized ratably over the membership period and will be classified as service sales. Other changes that we have identified relate primarily to the presentation of revenue. Certain advertising services will be classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales, and sales of apps, in-app content, and certain digital media content will primarily be presented on a net basis. In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. We do not expect adoption of the ASU in Q1 2018 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than 12 months, in addition to those currently recorded, on our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation of leases within the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows will be generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We plan to adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact and expect the ASU will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, primarily to the consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018. We estimate the ASU will have an impact of approximately $250 million on our consolidated financial statements, including retained earnings and deferred taxes. This estimate takes into account valuation allowances that we anticipate recording against certain material deferred tax assets. Any change in our assessment of the likelihood of our ability to realize deferred tax assets will be reflected as an income tax benefit during the quarter of such change. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the statement of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be included within cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. The ASU is effective retrospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018. X - Definition Accrued Expenses And Other, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_AccruedExpensesAndOtherPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Fulfillment Expenses, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_FulfillmentExpensesPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Other Assets, Noncurrent, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_OtherAssetsNoncurrentPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Other Nonoperating Income And Expense, Policy [Policy Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_OtherNonoperatingIncomeAndExpensePolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Other Operating Income And Expense, Policy [Policy Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_OtherOperatingIncomeAndExpensePolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Technology and Content Expenses, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_TechnologyAndContentExpensesPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Video And Music Content, Policy [Policy Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_VideoAndMusicContentPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for advertising costs. For those costs that cannot be capitalized, discloses whether such costs are expensed as incurred or the first period in which the advertising takes place. For direct response advertising costs that are capitalized, describes those assets and the accounting policy used, including a description of the qualifying activity, the types of costs capitalized and the related amortization period. An entity also may disclose its accounting policy for cooperative advertising arrangements. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 340 -SubTopic 20 -Section 55 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68054294&loc=d3e8384-108330 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 340 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159346&loc=d3e8275-108329 + Details Name: us-gaap_AdvertisingCostsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for legal obligation associated with retirement of long-lived asset that results from acquisition, construction, or development or from normal operation of long-lived asset. Excludes environmental remediation liability from improper or other-than-normal operation of long-lived asset, obligation arising in connection with leased property that meets definition of lease payments or variable lease payments and from plan to sell or otherwise dispose of a long-lived asset. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 410 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6392692&loc=d3e7535-110849 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_AssetRetirementObligationsPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for cash and cash equivalents, including the policy for determining which items are treated as cash equivalents. Other information that may be disclosed includes (1) the nature of any restrictions on the entity's use of its cash and cash equivalents, (2) whether the entity's cash and cash equivalents are insured or expose the entity to credit risk, (3) the classification of any negative balance accounts (overdrafts), and (4) the carrying basis of cash equivalents (for example, at cost) and whether the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates fair value. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(1)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 305 -SubTopic 10 -Section 05 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6375392&loc=d3e26790-107797 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 230 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=98513485&loc=d3e4273-108586 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for salaries, bonuses, incentive awards, postretirement and postemployment benefits granted to employees, including equity-based arrangements; discloses methodologies for measurement, and the bases for recognizing related assets and liabilities and recognizing and reporting compensation expense. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18726-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (b),(f(1)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=96867065&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_CompensationRelatedCostsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy regarding (1) the principles it follows in consolidating or combining the separate financial statements, including the principles followed in determining the inclusion or exclusion of subsidiaries or other entities in the consolidated or combined financial statements and (2) its treatment of interests (for example, common stock, a partnership interest or other means of exerting influence) in other entities, for example consolidation or use of the equity or cost methods of accounting.  The accounting policy may also address the accounting treatment for intercompany accounts and transactions, noncontrolling interest, and the income statement treatment in consolidation for issuances of stock by a subsidiary. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 810 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84161450&loc=d3e5614-111684 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 810 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 3 -Subparagraph (SX 210.3A-03) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27015204&loc=d3e355100-122828 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 810 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (SX 210.3A-02) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27015204&loc=d3e355033-122828 + Details Name: us-gaap_ConsolidationPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for recognition of costs in the period which correspond to the sales and revenue categories presented in the statement of operations. The accounting policy may include the amount and nature of costs incurred, provisions associated with inventories, purchase discounts, freight and other costs included in cost of sales incurred and recorded in the period. This disclosure also includes the nature of costs of sales incurred and recorded in the statement of operations for the period relating to transactions with related parties. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 225 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-03.2) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=63488584&loc=d3e20235-122688 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 605 -SubTopic 50 -Section 45 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68069731&loc=d3e63676-111659 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_CostOfSalesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for allowances received from a vendor. The disclosure differentiates between those allowances that are recorded as a reduction in the price of the vendors' products or services (that is, the entity's inventory) and which ultimately will be recorded as a reduction in the entity's cost of sales and those that are not. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 605 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 13.B.Q1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65893310&loc=d3e214044-122780 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 605 -SubTopic 50 -Section 45 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68069731&loc=d3e63676-111659 + Details Name: us-gaap_CostOfSalesVendorAllowancesPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for computing basic and diluted earnings or loss per share for each class of common stock and participating security. Addresses all significant policy factors, including any antidilutive items that have been excluded from the computation and takes into account stock dividends, splits and reverse splits that occur after the balance sheet date of the latest reporting period but before the issuance of the financial statements. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3550-109257 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3550-109257 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3630-109257 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_EarningsPerSharePolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for determining the fair value of financial instruments. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 825 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=77997519&loc=d3e13279-108611 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 60 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=7493716&loc=d3e21868-110260 + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueOfFinancialInstrumentsPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for (1) transactions denominated in a currency other than the reporting enterprise's functional currency, (2) translating foreign currency financial statements that are incorporated into the financial statements of the reporting enterprise by consolidation, combination, or the equity method of accounting, and (3) remeasurement of the financial statements of a foreign reporting enterprise in a hyperinflationary economy. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 830 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6450520&loc=d3e32583-110901 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 830 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6450222&loc=d3e30840-110895 + Details Name: us-gaap_ForeignCurrencyTransactionsAndTranslationsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for goodwill. This accounting policy also may address how an entity assesses and measures impairment of goodwill, how reporting units are determined, how goodwill is allocated to such units, and how the fair values of the reporting units are determined. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=35741047&loc=d3e13816-109267 + Details Name: us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsGoodwillPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for recognizing and measuring the impairment of long-lived assets. An entity also may disclose its accounting policy for long-lived assets to be sold. This policy excludes goodwill and intangible assets. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 5.CC) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27011434&loc=d3e125687-122742 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section 05 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=64802544&loc=d3e202-110218 + Details Name: us-gaap_ImpairmentOrDisposalOfLongLivedAssetsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for income taxes, which may include its accounting policies for recognizing and measuring deferred tax assets and liabilities and related valuation allowances, recognizing investment tax credits, operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards, and other carryforwards, methodologies for determining its effective income tax rate and the characterization of interest and penalties in the financial statements. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 19 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32840-109319 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 30 -Section 05 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65884525&loc=d3e40913-109327 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 954 -SubTopic 740 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6491622&loc=d3e9504-115650 Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 17 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32809-109319 Reference 6: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 25 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84176650&loc=d3e32247-109318 Reference 7: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 28 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84176650&loc=d3e32280-109318 + Details Name: us-gaap_IncomeTaxPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for costs incurred when both (1) the software is acquired, internally developed, or modified solely to meet the entity's internal needs, and (2) during the software's development or modification, no substantive plan exists or is being developed to market the software externally. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 50 -Section 25 -Paragraph 6 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=16397303&loc=d3e19379-109286 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 40 -Section 30 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6389767&loc=d3e17916-109280 + Details Name: us-gaap_InternalUseSoftwarePolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of inventory accounting policy for inventory classes, including, but not limited to, basis for determining inventory amounts, methods by which amounts are added and removed from inventory classes, loss recognition on impairment of inventories, and situations in which inventories are stated above cost. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 330 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66092785&loc=d3e4492-108314 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.6(b)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 330 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66092785&loc=d3e4556-108314 Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6361739&loc=d3e7789-107766 + Details Name: us-gaap_InventoryPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for investments in financial assets, including marketable securities (debt and equity securities with readily determinable fair values), investments accounted for under the equity method and cost method, securities borrowed and loaned, and repurchase and resale agreements. For marketable securities, the disclosure may include the entity's accounting treatment for transfers between investment categories and how the fair values for such securities are determined. Also, for all investments, an entity may describe its policy for assessing, recognizing and measuring impairment of the investment. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 323 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -Subparagraph (a)(2) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66011266&loc=d3e33918-111571 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 320 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 6 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=82897076&loc=d3e27290-111563 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.2,12) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 320 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 5.M) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65877573&loc=d3e87990-122713 Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 6: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 325 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=75025870&loc=d3e40691-111596 Reference 7: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 825 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 10 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=77997519&loc=d3e13433-108611 + Details Name: us-gaap_InvestmentPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for leasing arrangement entered into by lessee. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 842 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=77888426&loc=SL77918666-209980 + Details Name: us-gaap_LesseeLeasesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy pertaining to new accounting pronouncements that may impact the entity's financial reporting. Includes, but is not limited to, quantification of the expected or actual impact. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_NewAccountingPronouncementsPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for reclassifications that affects the comparability of the financial statements. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 205 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6359566&loc=d3e326-107755 + Details Name: us-gaap_PriorPeriodReclassificationAdjustmentDescription Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for long-lived, physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, basis of assets, depreciation and depletion methods used, including composite deprecation, estimated useful lives, capitalization policy, accounting treatment for costs incurred for repairs and maintenance, capitalized interest and the method it is calculated, disposals and impairments. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6391035&loc=d3e2868-110229 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.13(a)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 + Details Name: us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for trade and other accounts receivable, and finance, loan and lease receivables, including those classified as held for investment and held for sale. This disclosure may include (1) the basis at which such receivables are carried in the entity's statements of financial position (2) how the level of the valuation allowance for receivables is determined (3) when impairments, charge-offs or recoveries are recognized for such receivables (4) the treatment of origination fees and costs, including the amortization method for net deferred fees or costs (5) the treatment of any premiums or discounts or unearned income (6) the entity's income recognition policies for such receivables, including those that are impaired, past due or placed on nonaccrual status and (7) the treatment of foreclosures or repossessions (8) the nature and amount of any guarantees to repurchase receivables. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(3)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(4)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 310 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159169&loc=d3e10133-111534 Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 944 -SubTopic 210 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.7-03(a)(5)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6879938&loc=d3e572229-122910 Reference 6: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 310 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84173941&loc=d3e4975-111524 + Details Name: us-gaap_ReceivablesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for recognizing unearned income or deferred revenue related to transactions involving the sale of a product or performance of services. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 605 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 13.B.Q1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65893310&loc=d3e214044-122780 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_RevenueRecognitionDeferredRevenue Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for revenue recognition. If the entity has different policies for different types of revenue transactions, the policy for each material type of transaction is generally disclosed. If a sales transaction has multiple element arrangements (for example, delivery of multiple products, services or the rights to use assets) the disclosure may indicate the accounting policy for each unit of accounting as well as how units of accounting are determined and valued. The disclosure may encompass important judgment as to appropriateness of principles related to recognition of revenue. The disclosure also may indicate the entity's treatment of any unearned or deferred revenue that arises from the transaction. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18823-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 605 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 13.B.Q1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65893310&loc=d3e214044-122780 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18726-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_RevenueRecognitionPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for segment reporting. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_SegmentReportingPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for inclusion of significant items in the selling, general and administrative (or similar) expense report caption. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 720 -SubTopic 35 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6420018&loc=d3e36677-107848 + Details Name: us-gaap_SellingGeneralAndAdministrativeExpensesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for the use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84177426&loc=d3e6061-108592 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 9 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84177426&loc=d3e6143-108592 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 8 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84177426&loc=d3e6132-108592 + Details Name: us-gaap_UseOfEstimates Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 36 R22.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Accounting Policies [Abstract] Schedule of Calculation of Diluted Shares The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 467 474 480 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 10 10 13 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 477 484 493 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic net earnings per share (or unit) and diluted earnings per share (or unit). + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3550-109257 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfWeightedAverageNumberOfSharesTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 37 R23.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Investments, Debt and Equity Securities [Abstract] Summary of Fair Value by Major Security Type The following tables summarize, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2016 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 6,883 $ — $ — $ 6,883 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,940 — — 11,940 Equity securities 20 31 — 51 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 337 — — 337 U.S. government and agency securities 4,821 2 (7 ) 4,816 Corporate debt securities 2,105 1 (2 ) 2,104 Asset-backed securities 355 — (2 ) 353 Other fixed income securities 97 — — 97 $ 26,558 $ 34 $ (11 ) $ 26,581 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (600 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 25,981 December 31, 2017 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 9,982 $ — $ — $ 9,982 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,343 — — 11,343 Equity securities 23 30 — 53 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 620 — — 620 U.S. government and agency securities 4,841 1 (19 ) 4,823 Corporate debt securities 4,265 1 (9 ) 4,257 Asset-backed securities 910 — (5 ) 905 Other fixed income securities 340 — (2 ) 338 $ 32,324 $ 32 $ (35 ) $ 32,321 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (1,335 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 30,986 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies.” Summary of Gross Realized Gains (Losses) on Investments The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Realized gains $ 2 $ 3 $ 5 Realized losses 7 11 11 Summary of Contractual Maturities of Investments The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2017 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 17,293 $ 17,287 Due after one year through five years 4,149 4,129 Due after five years through ten years 302 300 Due after ten years 575 570 Total $ 22,319 $ 22,286 X - Definition Tabular disclosure of assets, including [financial] instruments measured at fair value that are classified in stockholders' equity, if any, by class that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The disclosures contemplated herein include the fair value measurements at the reporting date by the level within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements in their entirety fall, segregating fair value measurements using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1), significant other observable inputs (Level 2), and significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66048111&loc=d3e19207-110258 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66048111&loc=d3e19190-110258 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66048111&loc=d3e19207-110258 + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueAssetsMeasuredOnRecurringBasisTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of maturities of an entity's investments as well as any other information pertinent to the investments. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_InvestmentsClassifiedByContractualMaturityDateTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_InvestmentsDebtAndEquitySecuritiesAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of realized gains and losses on investments reported in the statement of income. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_RealizedGainLossOnInvestmentsTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 38 R24.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Property and Equipment (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Property, Plant and Equipment [Abstract] Property and Equipment, at Cost Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 13,998 $ 23,718 Equipment and internal-use software (2) 25,989 38,387 Other corporate assets 649 2,390 Construction in progress 1,805 4,078 Gross property and equipment 42,441 68,573 Total accumulated depreciation (1) 13,327 19,707 Total property and equipment, net $ 29,114 $ 48,866 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. (2) Includes internal-use software of $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, balances by class of assets, depreciation and depletion expense and method used, including composite depreciation, and accumulated deprecation. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6391035&loc=d3e2868-110229 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(13)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 + Details Name: us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 39 R25.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Business Combinations [Abstract] Allocation of Aggregate Purchase Price of Acquisitions The aggregate purchase price of the 2015 and 2016 acquisitions, and the Whole Foods Market and other 2017 acquisitions, which primarily includes the acquisition of Souq, was allocated as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Whole Foods Market Other 2017 Acquisitions Total Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 599 $ 81 $ 13,176 $ 683 $ 13,859 Stock options assumed 5 — — — — Indemnification holdback 86 22 — 104 104 $ 690 $ 103 $ 13,176 $ 787 $ 13,963 Allocation Goodwill $ 482 $ 60 $ 9,010 $ 491 $ 9,501 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 3 2 1,928 59 1,987 Contract-based 1 1 407 33 440 Technology-based 208 53 — 166 166 Customer-related 18 1 — 54 54 230 57 2,335 312 2,647 Property and equipment 4 3 3,794 16 3,810 Deferred tax assets 55 17 95 22 117 Other assets acquired 53 10 1,711 147 1,858 Long-term debt (3 ) (5 ) (1,158 ) (7 ) (1,165 ) Deferred tax liabilities (85 ) (18 ) (925 ) (36 ) (961 ) Other liabilities assumed (46 ) (21 ) (1,686 ) (158 ) (1,844 ) $ 690 $ 103 $ 13,176 $ 787 $ 13,963 ___________________ (1) Intangible assets acquired in 2015 , 2016 , and the other 2017 acquisitions have estimated useful lives of between one and six years, one and seven years, and one and seven years, with weighted-average amortization periods of five years, five years, and four years. Acquired intangible assets for Whole Foods Market have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years, with a weighted-average amortization period of twenty-three years, primarily driven by the Whole Foods Market trade name. Pro Forma Financial Information The following financial information, which excludes certain acquired companies for which the pro forma impact is not meaningful, presents our results as if the acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2017 had occurred on January 1, 2016 (in millions): Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2016 2017 Net sales $ 152,283 $ 187,890 Net income $ 2,148 $ 2,940 Summary of Goodwill Activity The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2016 and 2017 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2016 $ 2,012 $ 719 $ 1,028 $ 3,759 New acquisitions 30 13 17 60 Other adjustments (1) 2 (38 ) 1 (35 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2016 2,044 694 1,046 3,784 New acquisitions (2) 9,115 368 18 9,501 Other adjustments (1) 6 46 13 65 Goodwill - December 31, 2017 $ 11,165 $ 1,108 $ 1,077 $ 13,350 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. (2) Primarily includes the acquisition of Whole Foods Market in the North America segment and Souq in the International segment. Schedule of Acquired Finite-Lived Intangible Assets by Major Class Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ 499 $ (299 ) $ 200 $ 2,486 $ (418 ) $ 2,068 23.0 Contract-based 397 (212 ) 185 1,013 (213 ) 800 13.0 Technology- and content-based 705 (353 ) 352 640 (252 ) 388 4.4 Customer-related 299 (182 ) 117 283 (168 ) 115 2.1 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 1,900 $ (1,046 ) $ 854 $ 4,422 $ (1,051 ) $ 3,371 17.8 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years. Schedule of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets, Future Amortization Expense Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2017 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 $ 377 2019 337 2020 258 2021 214 2022 178 Thereafter 1,998 $ 3,362 X - Definition Tabular disclosure of pro forma results of operations for a material business acquisition or series of individually immaterial business acquisitions that are material in the aggregate. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 805 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (h)(2)-(3) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=79982066&loc=d3e1392-128463 + Details Name: us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionProFormaInformationTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_BusinessCombinationsAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the characteristics, including initial carrying value, residual amount, weighted average useful life, of finite-lived intangible assets acquired during the period by major class. A major class is composed of intangible assets that can be grouped together because they are similar, either by nature or by their use in the operations of the company. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66006027&loc=d3e16265-109275 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfAcquiredFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of goodwill by reportable segment and in total which includes a rollforward schedule. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=35741047&loc=d3e13816-109267 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=35741047&loc=d3e13854-109267 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfGoodwillTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. May include but not limited to the following: (a) acquired receivables; (b) contingencies recognized at the acquisition date; and (c) the fair value of noncontrolling interests in the acquiree. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 805 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84161108&loc=d3e4845-128472 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfRecognizedIdentifiedAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the amount of amortization expense expected to be recorded in succeeding fiscal years for finite-lived intangible assets. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66006027&loc=d3e16323-109275 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleofFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsFutureAmortizationExpenseTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 40 R26.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Long-Term Debt (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Debt Disclosure [Abstract] Long-Term Debt Obligations The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 1.200% Notes due on November 29, 2017 $ 1,000 $ — 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 1,000 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 (3) — 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 (3) — 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 (3) — 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 (4) — 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 (3) — 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 (3) — 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 (3) — 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 (3) — 2,250 Credit Facility 495 592 Other long-term debt 93 100 Total debt 8,838 24,942 Less current portion of long-term debt (1,056 ) (100 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 7,782 $ 24,842 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rate of the 2022 Notes were 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . (3) Issued in August 2017, effective interest rates of the 2020, 2023, 2024, 2027, 2037, 2047, and 2057 Notes were 2.16% , 2.56% , 2.95% , 3.25% , 3.94% , 4.13% , and 4.33% . (4) Consists of $872 million of 2025 Notes issued in December 2017 in exchange for notes assumed in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market and $128 million of 2025 Notes issued by Whole Foods Market that did not participate in our December 2017 exchange offer. The effective interest rate of the 2025 Notes was 3.02% . Future Principal Payments for Debt As of December 31, 2017 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 $ 100 2019 1,334 2020 1,258 2021 1,000 2022 1,250 Thereafter 20,000 $ 24,942 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_DebtDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of long-debt instruments or arrangements, including identification, terms, features, collateral requirements and other information necessary to a fair presentation. These are debt arrangements that originally required repayment more than twelve months after issuance or greater than the normal operating cycle of the entity, if longer. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.22) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159872&loc=d3e21475-112644 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 942 -SubTopic 470 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=75038535&loc=d3e64711-112823 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.4-08.(e),(f)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=26873400&loc=d3e23780-122690 Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 835 -SubTopic 30 -Section 55 -Paragraph 8 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=64930739&loc=d3e28878-108400 Reference 6: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 8 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159872&loc=d3e21538-112644 Reference 7: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 6 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159872&loc=d3e21506-112644 Reference 8: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 835 -SubTopic 30 -Section 45 -Paragraph 1A -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=64930785&loc=d3e28541-108399 Reference 9: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 835 -SubTopic 30 -Section 45 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=64930785&loc=d3e28551-108399 Reference 10: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 7 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159872&loc=d3e21521-112644 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfDebtInstrumentsTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the combined aggregate amount of maturities and sinking fund requirements for all long-term borrowings for each of the five years following the date of the latest balance sheet date presented. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6802200&loc=d3e1835-112601 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfMaturitiesOfLongTermDebtTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 41 R27.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Other Long-Term Liabilities (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Other Liabilities Disclosure [Abstract] Summary of Other Long-term Liabilities Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 5,080 $ 8,438 Long-term finance lease obligations 2,439 4,745 Construction liabilities 714 1,350 Tax contingencies 1,395 1,004 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 392 990 Other 2,587 4,448 Total other long-term liabilities $ 12,607 $ 20,975 Schedule of Long-term Capital Lease Obligations Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 Gross capital lease obligations $ 14,811 Less imputed interest (534 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 14,277 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (5,839 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 8,438 Schedule of Long-term Finance Lease Obligations Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 Gross finance lease obligations $ 6,265 Less imputed interest (1,238 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 5,027 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (282 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 4,745 X - Definition Schedule of Capital Lease Obligations [Table Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_ScheduleOfCapitalLeaseObligationsTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Schedule of Finance Lease Obligations [Table Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_ScheduleofFinanceLeaseObligationsTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_OtherLiabilitiesDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of other liabilities. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_OtherLiabilitiesTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 42 R28.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Commitments and Contingencies (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Commitments and Contingencies Disclosure [Abstract] Principal Contractual Commitments, Excluding Open Orders for Purchases The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2017 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 967 $ 2,234 $ 2,111 $ 1,834 $ 2,050 $ 31,799 $ 40,995 Capital lease obligations, including interest (1) 6,084 4,788 2,590 557 262 530 14,811 Finance lease obligations, including interest (2) 445 460 466 476 472 3,946 6,265 Operating leases 2,427 2,376 2,258 2,039 1,813 11,935 22,848 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 3,527 3,561 3,195 3,039 2,922 7,956 24,200 Other commitments (4) (5) 1,584 1,016 733 571 438 4,744 9,086 Total commitments $ 15,034 $ 14,435 $ 11,353 $ 8,516 $ 7,957 $ 60,910 $ 118,205 ___________________ (1) Excluding interest, current capital lease obligations of $4.0 billion and $5.8 billion are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , and $5.1 billion and $8.4 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . (2) Excluding interest, current finance lease obligations of $144 million and $282 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 , and $2.4 billion and $4.7 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 . (3) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (4) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements and equipment lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (5) Excludes $2.3 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_CommitmentsAndContingenciesDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the aggregate amount of payments due on known contractual obligations for the five years following the date of the latest balance sheet and the combined aggregate amount of maturities of known contractual obligations. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6802200&loc=d3e1835-112601 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher SEC -Name Regulation S-K (SK) -Number 229 -Section 303 -Paragraph a -Subparagraph 5 + Details Name: us-gaap_ContractualObligationFiscalYearMaturityScheduleTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 43 R29.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Stockholders' Equity (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Disclosure of Compensation Related Costs, Share-based Payments [Abstract] Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Cost of sales (1) $ — $ 16 $ 47 Fulfillment 482 657 911 Marketing 190 323 511 Technology and content 1,224 1,664 2,305 General and administrative 223 315 441 Total stock-based compensation expense (2) $ 2,119 $ 2,975 $ 4,215 ___________________ (1) Beginning in 2016, stock-based compensation expense was recorded to cost of sales for eligible employees providing delivery services. (2) The related tax benefits were $593 million , $907 million , and $860 million for 2015, 2016, and 2017. In 2017, the tax benefit reflects the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% . Summary of Restricted Stock Unit Activity The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2015 17.4 $ 285 Units granted 9.8 426 Units vested (5.6 ) 253 Units forfeited (2.7 ) 321 Outstanding as of December 31, 2015 18.9 362 Units granted 9.3 660 Units vested (6.1 ) 321 Units forfeited (2.3 ) 440 Outstanding as of December 31, 2016 19.8 506 Units granted 8.9 946 Units vested (6.8 ) 400 Units forfeited (1.8 ) 649 Outstanding as of December 31, 2017 20.1 $ 725 Scheduled Vesting of Outstanding Restricted Stock Units Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2017 , is as follows (in millions): Year Ended 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 7.3 7.3 3.6 1.6 0.1 0.2 20.1 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_DisclosureOfCompensationRelatedCostsSharebasedPaymentsAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the amount of total share-based compensation cost, including the amounts attributable to each share-based compensation plan and any related tax benefits. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (h)(1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=96867065&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfCompensationCostForShareBasedPaymentArrangementsAllocationOfShareBasedCompensationCostsByPlanTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the changes in outstanding nonvested restricted stock units. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (c)(2) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=96867065&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfNonvestedRestrictedStockUnitsActivityTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of number, weighted-average exercise price or conversion ratio, aggregate intrinsic value, and weighted-average remaining contractual term for outstanding restricted stock units that are fully vested and expected to vest. Includes, but is not limited to, unvested restricted stock units for which requisite service period has not been rendered but that are expected to vest based on achievement of performance condition, if forfeitures are recognized when they occur. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (e)(1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=96867065&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardRestrictedStockUnitsVestedAndExpectedToVestTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 44 R30.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Equity [Abstract] Changes in Composition of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Changes in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive loss for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 are as follows (in millions): Foreign currency translation adjustments Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Total Balances as of January 1, 2015 $ (512 ) $ 1 $ (511 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (210 ) (2 ) (212 ) Balances as of December 31, 2015 (722 ) (1 ) (723 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (279 ) 17 (262 ) Balances as of December 31, 2016 (1,001 ) 16 (985 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 533 (32 ) 501 Balances as of December 31, 2017 $ (468 ) $ (16 ) $ (484 ) X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_EquityAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 220 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 14A -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84228862&loc=SL7669686-108580 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 45 R31.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Income Taxes (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Income Tax Disclosure [Abstract] Components of Provision for Income Taxes, Net The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Current taxes: U.S. Federal $ 215 $ 1,136 $ (137 ) U.S. State 237 208 211 International 417 327 724 Current taxes 869 1,671 798 Deferred taxes: U.S. Federal 473 116 (202 ) U.S. State (171 ) (31 ) (26 ) International (221 ) (331 ) 199 Deferred taxes 81 (246 ) (29 ) Provision for income taxes, net $ 950 $ 1,425 $ 769 Components of Income Before Income Taxes, Domestic and Foreign U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 U.S. $ 2,186 $ 4,551 $ 5,630 International (618 ) (659 ) (1,824 ) Income (loss) before income taxes $ 1,568 $ 3,892 $ 3,806 Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate $ 549 $ 1,362 $ 1,332 Effect of: Impact of foreign tax differential 350 (69 ) 1,178 State taxes, net of federal benefits 37 110 114 Tax credits (99 ) (119 ) (220 ) Stock-based compensation (1) 149 189 (917 ) Domestic production activities deduction (44 ) (94 ) — Impact of 2017 Tax Act — — (789 ) Other, net 8 46 71 Total $ 950 $ 1,425 $ 769 ___________________ (1) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and beginning in 2017, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. For 2017, our tax provision includes $1.3 billion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 (6) Deferred tax assets (1): Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States (2) $ 198 $ 211 Loss carryforwards - Foreign (3) 1,062 2,149 Accrued liabilities, reserves, & other expenses 968 901 Stock-based compensation 1,073 1,026 Deferred revenue 330 349 Assets held for investment 66 35 Depreciation & amortization 179 279 Other items 171 167 Tax credits (4) 39 381 Total gross deferred tax assets 4,086 5,498 Less valuation allowance (5) (1,012 ) (2,538 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 3,074 2,960 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation & amortization (2,332 ) (2,568 ) Acquisition related intangible assets (226 ) (531 ) Other items (62 ) (58 ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowance $ 454 $ (197 ) ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits are presented net of tax contingencies. (2) Excluding $18 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2016 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation. Beginning in 2017, losses resulting from excess stock-based compensation are now recognized immediately as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. (3) Excluding $9 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2016 , related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation. Beginning in 2017, losses resulting from excess stock-based compensation are now recognized immediately as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. (4) Excluding $659 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2016 , related to tax credits that result from excess stock-based compensation. Beginning in 2017, losses resulting from excess stock-based compensation are now recognized immediately as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. (5) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. Reconciliation of Tax Contingencies The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 710 $ 1,181 $ 1,710 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 254 355 223 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (22 ) (133 ) (139 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 242 308 518 Lapse of statute of limitations (3 ) (1 ) (3 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 1,181 $ 1,710 $ 2,309 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2017 , we had $2.3 billion of accrued tax contingencies, of which $1.2 billion , if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the components of income tax expense attributable to continuing operations for each year presented including, but not limited to: current tax expense (benefit), deferred tax expense (benefit), investment tax credits, government grants, the benefits of operating loss carryforwards, tax expense that results from allocating certain tax benefits either directly to contributed capital or to reduce goodwill or other noncurrent intangible assets of an acquired entity, adjustments of a deferred tax liability or asset for enacted changes in tax laws or rates or a change in the tax status of the entity, and adjustments of the beginning-of-the-year balances of a valuation allowance because of a change in circumstances that causes a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset in future years. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 9 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32639-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfComponentsOfIncomeTaxExpenseBenefitTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the components of net deferred tax asset or liability recognized in an entity's statement of financial position, including the following: the total of all deferred tax liabilities, the total of all deferred tax assets, the total valuation allowance recognized for deferred tax assets. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32537-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfDeferredTaxAssetsAndLiabilitiesTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the reconciliation using percentage or dollar amounts of the reported amount of income tax expense attributable to continuing operations for the year to the amount of income tax expense that would result from applying domestic federal statutory tax rates to pretax income from continuing operations. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 12 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32687-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfEffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of income before income tax between domestic and foreign jurisdictions. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.4-08.(h)(1)(i)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=26873400&loc=d3e23780-122690 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfIncomeBeforeIncomeTaxDomesticAndForeignTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure for tax positions taken in the tax returns filed or to be filed for which it is more likely than not that the tax position will not be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities and other income tax contingencies. Includes, but is not limited to, interest and penalties, reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits, unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the effective tax rate, tax years that remain subject to examination by tax jurisdictions, and information about positions for which it is reasonably possible that amounts unrecognized will significantly change within 12 months. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 15A -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=SL6600010-109319 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 15 -Subparagraph (d) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32718-109319 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 19 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32840-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_SummaryOfIncomeTaxContingenciesTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 46 R32.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Segment Information (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Segment Reporting [Abstract] Information on Reportable Segments and Reconciliation to Consolidated Net Income (Loss) Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 North America Net sales $ 63,708 $ 79,785 $ 106,110 Operating expenses 62,283 77,424 103,273 Operating income $ 1,425 $ 2,361 $ 2,837 International Net sales $ 35,418 $ 43,983 $ 54,297 Operating expenses 36,117 45,266 57,359 Operating income (loss) $ (699 ) $ (1,283 ) $ (3,062 ) AWS Net sales $ 7,880 $ 12,219 $ 17,459 Operating expenses 6,373 9,111 13,128 Operating income $ 1,507 $ 3,108 $ 4,331 Consolidated Net sales $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 Operating expenses 104,773 131,801 173,760 Operating income 2,233 4,186 4,106 Total non-operating income (expense) (665 ) (294 ) (300 ) Provision for income taxes (950 ) (1,425 ) (769 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (22 ) (96 ) (4 ) Net income $ 596 $ 2,371 $ 3,033 Net Sales by Groups of Similar Products and Services Net sales by groups of similar products and services is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 Net Sales: Online stores (1) $ 76,863 $ 91,431 $ 108,354 Physical stores (2) — — 5,798 Third-party seller services (3) 16,086 22,993 31,881 Subscription services (4) 4,467 6,394 9,721 AWS 7,880 12,219 17,459 Other (5) 1,710 2,950 4,653 Consolidated $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 ___________________ (1) Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, music, videos, games, and software. These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in Subscription services. (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store. (3) Includes commissions, related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. (4) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime membership, as well as audiobook, e-book, digital video, digital music, and other non-AWS subscription services. (5) Includes sales not otherwise included above, such as certain advertising services and our co-branded credit card agreements. Net Sales Attributed to Countries Representing Significant Portion of Consolidated Net Sales Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 United States $ 70,537 $ 90,349 $ 120,486 Germany 11,816 14,148 16,951 United Kingdom 9,033 9,547 11,372 Japan 8,264 10,797 11,907 Rest of world 7,356 11,146 17,150 Consolidated $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 Reconciliation of Assets from Segment to Consolidated Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 2017 North America (1) $ 16,772 $ 22,225 $ 35,844 International (1) 7,754 10,429 18,014 AWS (2) 9,787 12,698 18,660 Corporate 30,434 38,050 58,792 Consolidated $ 64,747 $ 83,402 $ 131,310 ___________________ (1) North America and International segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable. (2) AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts receivable. Reconciliation of Property and Equipment from Segments to Consolidated Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2015 2016 2017 North America $ 6,707 $ 10,143 $ 20,401 International 2,266 3,448 7,425 AWS 8,356 10,300 14,885 Corporate 4,509 5,223 6,155 Consolidated $ 21,838 $ 29,114 $ 48,866 Reconciliation of Property and Equipment Additions and Depreciation from Segments to Consolidated Total depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 North America $ 1,551 $ 1,971 $ 3,029 International 822 930 1,278 AWS 2,576 3,461 4,524 Consolidated $ 4,949 $ 6,362 $ 8,831 Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 North America (1) $ 2,485 $ 5,132 $ 13,200 International (1) 658 1,680 5,196 AWS (2) 4,681 5,193 9,190 Corporate 1,801 1,580 2,197 Consolidated $ 9,625 $ 13,585 $ 29,783 ___________________ (1) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases of $938 million , $1.5 billion , and $2.9 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , and under other financing arrangements of $219 million , $849 million , and $2.9 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . (2) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases of $3.7 billion , $4.0 billion , and $7.3 billion in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 , and under finance leases of $81 million , $75 million , and $134 million in 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 . X - Definition Tabular disclosure of long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments, long-term customer relationships of a financial institution, mortgage rights, deferred policy acquisition costs, and deferred tax assets, by geographic areas located in the entity's country of domicile and foreign countries in which the entity holds assets. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 41 -Subparagraph b -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e9038-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_LongLivedAssetsByGeographicAreasTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of all significant reconciling items in the reconciliation of total assets from reportable segments to the entity's consolidated assets. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 30 -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8906-108599 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 31 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8924-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ReconciliationOfAssetsFromSegmentToConsolidatedTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of each significant reconciling item, other than profit (loss), revenues, or assets, in the reconciliation of totals of such items in reportable segments to the entity's corresponding consolidated amount. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 30 -Subparagraph (d) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8906-108599 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 31 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8924-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ReconciliationOfOtherSignificantReconcilingItemsFromSegmentsToConsolidatedTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of revenue from external customers by geographic areas attributed to the entity's country of domicile and to foreign countries from which the entity derives revenue. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 41 -Subparagraph a -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e9038-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_RevenueFromExternalCustomersByGeographicAreasTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of entity-wide revenues from external customers for each product or service or each group of similar products or services if the information is not provided as part of the reportable operating segment information. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 40 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e9031-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfEntityWideInformationRevenueFromExternalCustomersByProductsAndServicesTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the profit or loss and total assets for each reportable segment. An entity discloses certain information on each reportable segment if the amounts (a) are included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker or (b) are otherwise regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker, even if not included in that measure of segment profit or loss. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 30 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8906-108599 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 25 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8813-108599 Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 21 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8721-108599 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=35741047&loc=d3e13816-109267 Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/presentationRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 22 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68060357&loc=d3e8736-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfSegmentReportingInformationBySegmentTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_SegmentReportingAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 47 R33.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.8.0.1 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2017 Quarterly Financial Information Disclosure [Abstract] Quarterly Financial Information Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2016 (1) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ 29,128 $ 30,404 $ 32,714 $ 43,741 Operating income 1,071 1,285 575 1,255 Income before income taxes 1,056 1,179 491 1,166 Provision for income taxes (475 ) (307 ) (229 ) (414 ) Net income (loss) 513 857 252 749 Basic earnings per share 1.09 1.81 0.53 1.57 Diluted earnings per share 1.07 1.78 0.52 1.54 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 471 473 474 476 Diluted 481 483 485 486 Year Ended December 31, 2017 (1) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter (2) Fourth Quarter (2) Net sales $ 35,714 $ 37,955 $ 43,744 $ 60,453 Operating income 1,005 628 347 2,127 Income before income taxes 953 666 316 1,872 Provision for income taxes (229 ) (467 ) (58 ) (16 ) Net income (loss) 724 197 256 1,856 Basic earnings per share 1.52 0.41 0.53 3.85 Diluted earnings per share 1.48 0.40 0.52 3.75 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 477 479 481 483 Diluted 490 492 494 496 ___________________ (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. (2) We acquired Whole Foods Market on August 28, 2017. The results of Whole Foods Market have been included in our results of operation from the date of acquisition. See 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our stores to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, and physically visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo devices, and we develop and produce media content. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on over 100 million items, access to unlimited streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington and have announced plans to establish additional headquarters in New York, New York and Arlington, Virginia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings.” 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 (1) 2018 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 88,988 $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 Operating income $ 178 $ 2,233 $ 4,186 $ 4,106 $ 12,421 Net income (loss) $ (241 ) $ 596 $ 2,371 $ 3,033 $ 10,073 Basic earnings per share (2) $ (0.52 ) $ 1.28 $ 5.01 $ 6.32 $ 20.68 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ (0.52 ) $ 1.25 $ 4.90 $ 6.15 $ 20.14 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 462 467 474 480 487 Diluted 462 477 484 493 500 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (3) $ 6,976 $ 11,909 $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 53,618 $ 64,747 $ 83,402 $ 131,310 $ 162,648 Total long-term obligations $ 14,794 $ 17,477 $ 20,301 $ 45,718 $ 50,708 ___________________ (1) We acquired Whole Foods Market on August 28, 2017. The results of Whole Foods Market have been included in our results of operation from the date of acquisition. (2) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (3) As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to add restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents, which restated cash provided by operating activities by $128 million, $(130) million, $(69) million , and $(69) million in 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies” for additional information. 17 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 19 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2018 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $190 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the U.S. tax reform legislation commonly known as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “U.S. Tax Act”). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the U.S. Tax Act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. Tax Act significantly changed how the U.S. taxes corporations. The U.S. Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the U.S. Tax Act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the U.S. Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered. As future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 20 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 Investing activities (9,516 ) (27,084 ) (12,369 ) Financing activities (3,716 ) 9,928 (7,686 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $ 26.0 billion , $31.0 billion , and $41.3 billion as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $9.1 billion , $11.1 billion , and $13.8 billion , as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $17.2 billion , $18.4 billion , and $30.7 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(9.5) billion , $(27.1) billion , and $(12.4) billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , with the variability caused primarily by cash paid for acquisitions, our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $ 6.7 billion , $ 10.1 billion , and $11.3 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), during all three years. In 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $116 million , $14.0 billion , and $2.2 billion . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(3.7) billion , $9.9 billion , and $(7.7) billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments on obligations related to capital leases and finance leases and repayments of long-term debt and other, which were $4.3 billion , $6.3 billion , and $8.5 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases was $5.7 billion , $9.6 billion , and $10.6 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , with the increase reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and other. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $618 million , $16.2 billion , and $768 million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . During 2017, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from the issuance of $16.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in seven tranches maturing in 2020 through 2057. The proceeds from notes issued in August 2017 (the “August 2017 Notes”) were used to fund the consideration for the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, to repay notes due in 2017, and for general corporate purposes. 21 Table of Contents In April 2018, we established a commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $7.0 billion at any time, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program as of December 31, 2018 . We had no borrowings outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and $594 million of borrowings outstanding under our $620 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of December 31, 2018 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 5 — Debt” for additional information. In 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , we recorded net tax provisions of $1.4 billion , $769 million , and $1.2 billion . Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject to U.S. taxation under the U.S. Tax Act, which also repeals U.S. taxation on the subsequent repatriation of those earnings. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. As of December 31, 2018 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $12.0 billion. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. The U.S. Tax Act enhanced and extended the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $412 million , $957 million , and $1.2 billion for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . As of December 31, 2018 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $627 million and we had approximately $1.4 billion of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits we expect cash paid for taxes to increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with the European Commission’s October 2017 decision against us on state aid, Luxembourg tax authorities computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’s decision, of approximately €250 million, that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $1.3 billion and $426 million . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $13.1 billion as of December 31, 2018 . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, Amazon Prime membership fees, advertising services, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net Sales: North America $ 79,785 $ 106,110 $ 141,366 International 43,983 54,297 65,866 AWS 12,219 17,459 25,655 Consolidated $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 25 % 33 % 33 % International 24 23 21 AWS 55 43 47 Consolidated 27 31 31 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 25 % 33 % 33 % International 26 23 19 AWS 55 43 47 Consolidated 28 31 30 Net sales mix: North America 59 % 60 % 61 % International 32 30 28 AWS 9 10 11 Consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % Sales increased 31% in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(550) million , $210 million , and $1.3 billion for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 33% in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and the impact of the acquisition of Whole Foods Market. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased 23% and 21% in 2017 , and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(489) million , $138 million , and $1.3 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . AWS sales increased 43 % and 47 % in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years. The sales growth in each year primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. 23 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 2,361 $ 2,837 $ 7,267 International (1,283 ) (3,062 ) (2,142 ) AWS 3,108 4,331 7,296 Consolidated $ 4,186 $ 4,106 $ 12,421 Operating income was $4.2 billion , $4.1 billion , and $12.4 billion for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by costs to expand our fulfillment network. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $27 million , $(4) million , and $17 million for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . The decrease in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by costs to expand our fulfillment network. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss by $89 million , $(85) million , and $258 million for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure and payroll and related expenses, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(5) million , $(53) million , and $(49) million for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 88,265 $ 111,934 $ 139,156 Fulfillment 17,619 25,249 34,027 Marketing 7,233 10,069 13,814 Technology and content 16,085 22,620 28,837 General and administrative 2,432 3,674 4,336 Other operating expense, net 167 214 296 Total operating expenses $ 131,801 $ 173,760 $ 220,466 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 23 % 27 % 24 % Fulfillment 31 43 35 Marketing 38 39 37 Technology and content 28 41 27 General and administrative 39 51 18 Other operating expense, net (2 ) 28 38 Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 64.9 % 62.9 % 59.8 % Fulfillment 13.0 14.2 14.6 Marketing 5.3 5.7 5.9 Technology and content 11.8 12.7 12.4 General and administrative 1.8 2.1 1.9 Other operating expense, net 0.1 0.1 0.1 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $16.2 billion , $21.7 billion , and $27.7 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. 25 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores, and variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, third party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, as well as increased spending on online marketing channels. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to an increase in spending on technology infrastructure and increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2017 and 2018 , compared to the comparable prior years, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. 26 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $167 million , $214 million , and $296 million during 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , and is primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $100 million , $202 million , and $440 million during 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $484 million , $848 million , and $1.4 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . The increase is primarily due to increases in our long-term debt and capital and finance lease arrangements. Our long-term debt was $24.7 billion and $23.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Our other long-term liabilities were $21.0 billion and $27.2 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 5 — Debt and Note 6 — Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $90 million , $346 million , and $(183) million during 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to foreign currency, equity warrant valuation, and equity securities gains. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. The U.S. Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The U.S. Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax. The U.S. Tax Act also enhanced and extended the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. We reasonably estimated the effects of the U.S. Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. We recorded a provisional tax benefit for the impact of the U.S. Tax Act of approximately $789 million. This amount was primarily comprised of the remeasurement of federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax on the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of this one-time tax was not material. In 2018, we completed our determination of the accounting implications of the U.S. Tax Act. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $1.4 billion , $769 million , and $1.2 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Our provision for income taxes in 2017 was lower than in 2016 primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the one-time favorable effect of the U.S. Tax Act, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We regularly assess whether it is more likely than not that we will realize our deferred tax assets in each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. In performing this assessment with respect to each jurisdiction, we review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains, and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In Q2 2017, we recognized an estimated charge to tax expense of $600 million to record a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets in Luxembourg. Our provision for income taxes in 2018 was higher than in 2017 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income and the one-time provisional tax benefit of the U.S. Tax Act recognized in 2017. This was partially offset by the reduction to the 27 Table of Contents U.S. federal statutory tax rate in 2018, a decline in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may not realize a tax benefit, and an increase in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2018 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $627 million and we had approximately $1.4 billion of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(96) million , $(4) million , and $9 million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . The primary components of this activity during 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 were our equity-method investment gains (losses) during the years and impairments recorded in 2016. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to add restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives,” which both are included in cash flow from investing activities. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (6,737 ) (10,058 ) (11,323 ) Free cash flow $ 10,466 $ 8,307 $ 19,400 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (9,516 ) $ (27,084 ) $ (12,369 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,716 ) $ 9,928 $ (7,686 ) 28 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which are included in cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments of cash for our capital and finance leases. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less lease principal repayments to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (6,737 ) (10,058 ) (11,323 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (3,860 ) (4,799 ) (7,449 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (147 ) (200 ) (337 ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ 6,459 $ 3,308 $ 11,614 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (9,516 ) $ (27,084 ) $ (12,369 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,716 ) $ 9,928 $ (7,686 ) Free Cash Flow Less Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance lease obligations,” which is included in cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. In this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from property and equipment incentives (6,737 ) (10,058 ) (11,323 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (5,704 ) (9,637 ) (10,615 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (147 ) (200 ) (337 ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ 4,615 $ (1,530 ) $ 8,448 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (9,516 ) $ (27,084 ) $ (12,369 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (3,716 ) $ 9,928 $ (7,686 ) All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior years. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2018 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 135,987 $ 550 $ 136,537 $ 177,866 $ (210 ) $ 177,656 $ 232,887 $ (1,253 ) $ 231,634 Operating expenses 131,801 660 132,461 173,760 (352 ) 173,408 220,466 (1,027 ) 219,439 Operating income 4,186 (110 ) 4,076 4,106 142 4,248 12,421 (226 ) 12,195 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year for operating results. Guidance We provided guidance on January 31, 2019 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 31, 2019 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2018 (in millions, except percentages): 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2018 Money market funds $ 12,515 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 12,515 $ 12,515 Weighted average interest rate 1.16 % —% —% — % — % — % 1.16 % Corporate debt securities 3,220 1,086 560 120 16 — 5,002 4,990 Weighted average interest rate 2.96 % 3.25 % 3.36 % 3.86 % 4.26 % — % 3.09 % U.S. government and agency securities 11,071 416 135 91 4 — 11,717 11,667 Weighted average interest rate 2.35 % 2.49 % 2.68 % 2.76 % 3.38 % — % 2.36 % Asset-backed securities 305 255 162 121 52 — 895 892 Weighted average interest rate 2.96 % 3.07 % 3.02 % 2.99 % 3.07 % — % 3.01 % Foreign government and agency securities 761 50 4 — — — 815 815 Weighted average interest rate 2.60 % 2.68 % 3.32 % — % — % — % 2.61 % Other fixed income securities 89 67 32 — — — 188 188 Weighted average interest rate 3.25 % 2.89 % 3.13 % — % — % — % 3.10 % $ 27,961 $ 1,874 $ 893 $ 332 $ 72 $ — $ 31,132 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities $ 31,067 31 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2018 , we had $25.0 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions): 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 $ 1,000 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 $ 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 $ 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 $ 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 $ 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 $ 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 $ 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 $ 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 $ 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 $ 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 $ 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 $ 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 $ 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 $ 2,250 Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $25.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 . Foreign Exchange Risk During 2018 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 28% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales increased by $1.3 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2018 , of $13.8 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $690 million, $1.4 billion, and $2.8 billion. All cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2018 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $145 million, $305 million, and $685 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. 32 Table of Contents Investment Risk As of December 31, 2018 , our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $942 million. Our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies represent $518 million of our investments as of December 31, 2018 , and are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. We perform a qualitative assessment for our equity investments in private companies to identify impairment. If this assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we estimate the fair value of the investment and, if the fair value is less than carrying value, we write down the investment to fair value. Our assessment includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 33 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 35 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 36 Consolidated Statements of Operations 37 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 40 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41 34 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018 and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2018 and 2017 , and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 , based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated January 31, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1996. Seattle, Washington January 31, 2019 35 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 16,175 $ 19,934 $ 21,856 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 2,371 3,033 10,073 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of property and equipment and other amortization, including capitalized content costs 8,116 11,478 15,341 Stock-based compensation 2,975 4,215 5,418 Other operating expense, net 160 202 274 Other expense (income), net (20 ) (292 ) 219 Deferred income taxes (246 ) (29 ) 441 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (1,426 ) (3,583 ) (1,314 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (3,436 ) (4,780 ) (4,615 ) Accounts payable 5,030 7,100 3,263 Accrued expenses and other 1,724 283 472 Unearned revenue 1,955 738 1,151 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 17,203 18,365 30,723 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment (7,804 ) (11,955 ) (13,427 ) Proceeds from property and equipment incentives 1,067 1,897 2,104 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (116 ) (13,972 ) (2,186 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 4,577 9,677 8,240 Purchases of marketable securities (7,240 ) (12,731 ) (7,100 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (9,516 ) (27,084 ) (12,369 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from long-term debt and other 618 16,228 768 Repayments of long-term debt and other (327 ) (1,301 ) (668 ) Principal repayments of capital lease obligations (3,860 ) (4,799 ) (7,449 ) Principal repayments of finance lease obligations (147 ) (200 ) (337 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (3,716 ) 9,928 (7,686 ) Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (212 ) 713 (351 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 3,759 1,922 10,317 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD $ 19,934 $ 21,856 $ 32,173 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 290 $ 328 $ 854 Cash paid for interest on capital and finance lease obligations 206 319 575 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds 412 957 1,184 Property and equipment acquired under capital leases 5,704 9,637 10,615 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit leases 1,209 3,541 3,641 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net product sales $ 94,665 $ 118,573 $ 141,915 Net service sales 41,322 59,293 90,972 Total net sales 135,987 177,866 232,887 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 88,265 111,934 139,156 Fulfillment 17,619 25,249 34,027 Marketing 7,233 10,069 13,814 Technology and content 16,085 22,620 28,837 General and administrative 2,432 3,674 4,336 Other operating expense, net 167 214 296 Total operating expenses 131,801 173,760 220,466 Operating income 4,186 4,106 12,421 Interest income 100 202 440 Interest expense (484 ) (848 ) (1,417 ) Other income (expense), net 90 346 (183 ) Total non-operating income (expense) (294 ) (300 ) (1,160 ) Income before income taxes 3,892 3,806 11,261 Provision for income taxes (1,425 ) (769 ) (1,197 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (96 ) (4 ) 9 Net income $ 2,371 $ 3,033 $ 10,073 Basic earnings per share $ 5.01 $ 6.32 $ 20.68 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.90 $ 6.15 $ 20.14 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 474 480 487 Diluted 484 493 500 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net income $ 2,371 $ 3,033 $ 10,073 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $(49), $5, and $6 (279 ) 533 (538 ) Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $(12), $5, and $0 9 (39 ) (17 ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $0, $0, and $0 8 7 8 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities 17 (32 ) (9 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) (262 ) 501 (547 ) Comprehensive income $ 2,109 $ 3,534 $ 9,526 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2017 2018 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 20,522 $ 31,750 Marketable securities 10,464 9,500 Inventories 16,047 17,174 Accounts receivable, net and other 13,164 16,677 Total current assets 60,197 75,101 Property and equipment, net 48,866 61,797 Goodwill 13,350 14,548 Other assets 8,897 11,202 Total assets $ 131,310 $ 162,648 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 34,616 $ 38,192 Accrued expenses and other 18,170 23,663 Unearned revenue 5,097 6,536 Total current liabilities 57,883 68,391 Long-term debt 24,743 23,495 Other long-term liabilities 20,975 27,213 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 507 and 514 Outstanding shares — 484 and 491 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (1,837 ) (1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 21,389 26,791 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (484 ) (1,035 ) Retained earnings 8,636 19,625 Total stockholders’ equity 27,709 43,549 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 131,310 $ 162,648 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2016 471 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 13,394 $ (723 ) $ 2,545 $ 13,384 Net income — — — — — 2,371 2,371 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (262 ) — (262 ) Exercise of common stock options 6 — — 1 — — 1 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 829 — — 829 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 2,962 — — 2,962 Balance as of December 31, 2016 477 5 (1,837 ) 17,186 (985 ) 4,916 19,285 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to stock-based compensation — — — — — 687 687 Net income — — — — — 3,033 3,033 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 501 — 501 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — 1 — — 1 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 4,202 — — 4,202 Balance as of December 31, 2017 484 5 (1,837 ) 21,389 (484 ) 8,636 27,709 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles related to revenue recognition, income taxes, and financial instruments — — — — (4 ) 916 912 Net income — — — — — 10,073 10,073 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — (547 ) — (547 ) Exercise of common stock options 7 — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 5,402 — — 5,402 Balance as of December 31, 2018 491 $ 5 $ (1,837 ) $ 26,791 $ (1,035 ) $ 19,625 $ 43,549 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 — DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores and fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through our AWS segment, which offers a broad set of global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 10 — Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the addition of restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated statements of cash flows as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, and inventory valuation. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 474 480 487 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 10 13 13 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 484 493 500 41 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin. A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including audiobooks, digital video, e-books, digital music, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. Other - Other revenue primarily includes sales of advertising services, which are recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $567 million , $468 million , and $623 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Additions to the allowance were $1.5 billion , $1.8 billion , and $2.3 billion and deductions from the allowance were $1.5 billion , $1.9 billion , and $2.3 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Included in “Inventories” on our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $411 million , $406 million , and $519 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. 42 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, and television advertising. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred and were $5.0 billion , $6.3 billion , and $8.2 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience and employee level. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains (losses) of $21 million , $247 million , and $(206) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 and equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $67 million , $109 million , and $(131) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 and equity securities gains of $1 million , $18 million , and $145 million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . 43 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject to U.S. taxation under the U.S. Tax Act, which also repeals U.S. taxation on the subsequent repatriation of those earnings. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 — Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , these warrants had a fair value of $441 million and $440 million , and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $67 million , $109 million , and $(131) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. 44 Table of Contents We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , customer receivables, net, were $6.4 billion and $9.4 billion , vendor receivables, net, were $2.6 billion and $3.2 billion , and seller receivables, net, were $692 million and $710 million . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $237 million , $348 million , and $495 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Additions to the allowance were $451 million , $626 million , and $878 million , and deductions to the allowance were $403 million , $515 million , and $731 million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction in our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to seven years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives provided by the landlord. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. As disclosed in “Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted,” our accounting for build-to-suit and finance leases will change on January 1, 2019. 45 Table of Contents Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2018 , and determined that goodwill is no t impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual impairment test. See “Note 4 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; video and music content, net of accumulated amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content We obtain video and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions, which include both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage patterns, which typically ranges from one to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. Capitalized production costs associated with our original content are limited by the amount of revenue we expect to earn, which results in a portion being expensed as incurred. These capitalized costs are amortized to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments and are classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statement of operations. We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments indicate impairment. For debt securities and equity method investments, we also evaluate whether declines in fair value of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we 46 Table of Contents assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include: quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, customer liabilities, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $2.9 billion and $3.4 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2017 was $6.1 billion , of which $5.3 billion was recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018 , including adjustments related to the new revenue recognition guidance. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $19.3 billion as of December 31, 2018 . The weighted average remaining life of our long-term contracts is 3.3 years. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $62 million , $202 million , and $(186) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . 47 Table of Contents Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We adopted this ASU on January 1, 2018 for all revenue contracts with our customers using the modified retrospective approach and increased retained earnings by approximately $650 million . The adjustment primarily relates to the unredeemed portion of our gift cards, which are now recognized over the expected customer usage period rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote. We changed the recognition and classification of Amazon Prime memberships, which are now accounted for as a single performance obligation and recognized ratably over the membership period as service sales. Previously, Prime memberships were considered to be arrangements with multiple deliverables and were allocated among product sales and service sales. Other changes relate primarily to the presentation of revenue. Certain advertising services are now classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales, and sales of apps, in-app content, and certain digital media content are presented on a net basis. Prior year amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policy. The impact of applying this ASU for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily resulted in a decrease in product sales and an increase in service sales driven by the reclassification of Prime membership fees of approximately $3.8 billion . Service sales also increased by approximately $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 due to the reclassification of certain advertising services. In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 with no material impact to our consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 with an increase of approximately $250 million to retained earnings and deferred tax assets net of valuation allowances. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the consolidated statements of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be added to cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of cash flows. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 on a retrospective basis with the following impacts to our consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 17,272 $ (69 ) $ 17,203 Investing activities (9,876 ) 360 (9,516 ) Financing activities (3,740 ) 24 (3,716 ) Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 3,656 $ 315 $ 3,971 Year Ended December 31, 2017 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 18,434 $ (69 ) $ 18,365 Investing activities (27,819 ) 735 (27,084 ) Financing activities 9,860 68 9,928 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 475 $ 734 $ 1,209 48 Table of Contents Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than 12 months, in addition to those currently recorded, on our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation of leases within the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows will be generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU on January 1, 2019 with an immaterial cumulative adjustment to retained earnings rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. This adoption approach will result in a balance sheet presentation that will not be comparable to the prior period in the first year of adoption. The adoption of this ASU will result in the recognition of operating lease assets and liabilities of approximately $21 billion , which includes the reclassification of finance leases to operating leases of approximately $1.2 billion , and the derecognition of build-to-suit lease assets and liabilities when we do not control the building during the construction period of approximately $1.5 billion . Note 2 — CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, RESTRICTED CASH, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2017 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 9,982 $ — $ — $ 9,982 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,343 — — 11,343 Equity securities 23 30 — 53 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 620 — — 620 U.S. government and agency securities 4,841 1 (19 ) 4,823 Corporate debt securities 4,265 1 (9 ) 4,257 Asset-backed securities 910 — (5 ) 905 Other fixed income securities 340 — (2 ) 338 $ 32,324 $ 32 $ (35 ) $ 32,321 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (1,335 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 30,986 49 Table of Contents December 31, 2018 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,406 $ — $ — $ 10,406 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 12,515 — — 12,515 Equity securities 29 143 (2 ) 170 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 815 — — 815 U.S. government and agency securities 11,686 1 (20 ) 11,667 Corporate debt securities 5,008 1 (19 ) 4,990 Asset-backed securities 896 — (4 ) 892 Other fixed income securities 190 — (2 ) 188 Equity securities 28 5 — 33 $ 41,573 $ 150 $ (47 ) $ 41,676 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (426 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 41,250 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale fixed income marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Realized gains $ 3 $ 5 $ 2 Realized losses 11 11 9 The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 27,520 $ 27,508 Due after one year through five years 2,865 2,845 Due after five years through ten years 187 185 Due after ten years 538 529 Total $ 31,110 $ 31,067 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 50 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $ 20,522 $ 31,750 Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other 1,329 418 Restricted cash included in other assets 5 5 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows $ 21,856 $ 32,173 Note 3 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 23,896 $ 31,741 Equipment 42,244 54,591 Other assets 2,438 2,577 Construction in progress 4,078 6,861 Gross property and equipment 72,656 95,770 Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 23,790 33,973 Total property and equipment, net $ 48,866 $ 61,797 ___________________ (1) We revised our prior year presentation of gross property and equipment and total accumulated depreciation and amortization to include all property and equipment in service, including equipment which is fully-depreciated, to conform to the current year presentation. Total property and equipment, net remains unchanged for the prior year. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $6.4 billion , $8.8 billion , and $12.1 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $3.8 billion , $5.4 billion , and $7.3 billion for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $26.4 billion and $36.1 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Accumulated amortization associated with capital leases was $13.4 billion and $19.8 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $5.4 billion and $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $635 million and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . As disclosed in “Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” our accounting for build-to-suit and finance leases will change on January 1, 2019. Note 4 — ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2016 Acquisition Activity During 2016 , we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $103 million . The primary reason for these acquisitions, none of which were individually material to our consolidated financial statements, was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. 51 Table of Contents 2017 Acquisition Activity On May 12, 2017 , we acquired Souq Group Ltd. (“Souq”), an e-commerce company, for approximately $583 million , net of cash acquired, and on August 28, 2017, we acquired Whole Foods Market, a grocery store chain, for approximately $13.2 billion , net of cash acquired. Both acquisitions are intended to expand our retail presence. During 2017 , we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $204 million . The primary reason for our other 2017 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. 2018 Acquisition Activity On April 12, 2018 , we acquired Ring Inc. (“Ring”) for cash consideration of approximately $839 million , net of cash acquired, and on September 11, 2018 , we acquired PillPack, Inc. (“PillPack”) for cash consideration of approximately $753 million , net of cash acquired, to expand our product and service offerings. During 2018 , we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $57 million . The primary reason for our other 2018 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. Purchase Price Allocation The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 81 $ 13,859 $ 1,618 Indemnification holdback 22 104 31 $ 103 $ 13,963 $ 1,649 Allocation Goodwill $ 60 $ 9,501 $ 1,228 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 2 1,987 186 Contract-based 1 440 13 Technology-based 53 166 285 Customer-related 1 54 193 57 2,647 677 Property and equipment 3 3,810 11 Deferred tax assets 17 117 174 Other assets acquired 10 1,858 282 Long-term debt (5 ) (1,165 ) (176 ) Deferred tax liabilities (18 ) (961 ) (159 ) Other liabilities assumed (21 ) (1,844 ) (388 ) $ 103 $ 13,963 $ 1,649 ___________________ (1) Intangible assets acquired in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 have estimated useful lives of between one and seven years, one and twenty-five years, and two and seven years, with weighted-average amortization periods of five years, twenty-one years, and six years. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. 52 Table of Contents Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2017 and 2018 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2017 $ 2,044 $ 694 $ 1,046 $ 3,784 New acquisitions (1) 9,115 368 18 9,501 Other adjustments (2) 6 46 13 65 Goodwill - December 31, 2017 11,165 1,108 1,077 13,350 New acquisitions (1) 1,031 177 20 1,228 Other adjustments (2) (5 ) (15 ) (10 ) (30 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2018 $ 12,191 $ 1,270 $ 1,087 $ 14,548 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes the acquisition of Whole Foods Market in the North America segment and Souq in the International segment in 2017 and the acquisitions of Ring and PillPack in the North America segment in 2018. (2) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ 2,486 $ (418 ) $ 2,068 $ 2,542 $ (431 ) $ 2,111 21.2 Contract-based 1,013 (213 ) 800 1,430 (224 ) 1,206 12.3 Technology- and content-based 640 (252 ) 388 941 (377 ) 564 4.6 Customer-related 283 (168 ) 115 437 (208 ) 229 4.4 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 4,422 $ (1,051 ) $ 3,371 $ 5,350 $ (1,240 ) $ 4,110 15.4 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $287 million , $366 million , and $475 million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2018 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 $ 511 2020 412 2021 355 2022 323 2023 270 Thereafter 2,217 $ 4,088 53 Table of Contents Note 5 — DEBT As of December 31, 2018 , we had $24.3 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , the net unamortized discount and debt issuance costs on the Notes was $99 million and $101 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings under our credit facility, of $692 million and $715 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 1,000 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 (3) 1,000 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 (3) 1,000 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 (3) 2,000 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 (4) 1,000 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 (3) 3,500 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 (3) 2,750 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 (3) 3,500 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 (3) 2,250 2,250 Credit Facility 592 594 Other long-term debt 100 121 Total debt 24,942 24,965 Less current portion of long-term debt (100 ) (1,371 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 24,842 $ 23,594 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rate of the 2022 Notes was 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . (3) Issued in August 2017, effective interest rates of the 2020, 2023, 2024, 2027, 2037, 2047, and 2057 Notes were 2.16% , 2.56% , 2.95% , 3.25% , 3.94% , 4.13% , and 4.33% . (4) Consists of $872 million of 2025 Notes issued in December 2017 in exchange for notes assumed in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market and $128 million of 2025 Notes issued by Whole Foods Market that did not participate in our December 2017 exchange offer. The effective interest rate of the 2025 Notes was 3.02% . Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December . Interest on the Notes issued in 2017 is payable semi-annually in arrears in February and August. Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the November 2012 and the December 2014 Notes were used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the August 2017 Notes were used to fund the consideration for the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, to repay notes due in 2017, and for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $25.7 billion and $24.3 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates. In October 2016, we entered into a $500 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables , which we subsequently increased to $620 million and may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is available for a term of three years , bears interest at the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus 1.65% , and has a commitment fee of 0.50% on the undrawn portion. There were $592 million and $594 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , which had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.7% and 3.2% as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , we 54 Table of Contents have pledged $686 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 5.8% and 6.0% as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . As of December 31, 2018 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 $ 1,371 2020 1,298 2021 1,016 2022 1,266 2023 1,014 Thereafter 19,000 $ 24,965 In April 2018, we established a commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $7.0 billion at any time, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program as of December 31, 2018 . In April 2018, in connection with our Commercial Paper Program, we amended and restated our unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders to increase our borrowing capacity thereunder to $7.0 billion . As amended and restated, the Credit Agreement has a term of three years , but it may be extended for up to three additional one -year terms if approved by the lenders. The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the amended and restated Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.50% , with a commitment fee of 0.04% on the undrawn portion of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Note 6 — OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 8,438 $ 9,650 Long-term finance lease obligations 4,745 6,642 Construction liabilities 1,350 2,516 Tax contingencies 1,004 896 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 990 1,490 Other 4,448 6,019 Total other long-term liabilities $ 20,975 $ 27,213 Capital and Finance Leases Certain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 Gross capital lease obligations $ 17,952 Less imputed interest (582 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 17,370 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (7,720 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 9,650 55 Table of Contents We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liabilities.” As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 Gross finance lease obligations $ 8,376 Less imputed interest (1,323 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 7,053 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (411 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 6,642 As disclosed in “Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” our accounting for build-to-suit and finance leases will change on January 1, 2019. Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. As disclosed in “Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” our accounting for build-to-suit and finance leases will change on January 1, 2019. Tax Contingencies We have recorded reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These reserves primarily relate to transfer pricing and state income taxes, and are presented net of offsetting deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits. See “Note 9 — Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. 56 Table of Contents Note 7 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $1.4 billion , $2.2 billion , and $3.4 billion for 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 2,277 $ 2,161 $ 1,861 $ 2,078 $ 1,781 $ 30,013 $ 40,171 Capital lease obligations, including interest (1) 7,807 5,742 2,725 704 473 501 17,952 Finance lease obligations, including interest (2) 628 640 652 664 675 5,117 8,376 Operating leases 3,127 3,070 2,775 2,473 2,195 13,026 26,666 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 3,523 4,103 3,291 3,098 2,974 5,204 22,193 Other commitments (4) (5) 2,618 1,455 1,056 843 808 8,875 15,655 Total commitments $ 19,980 $ 17,171 $ 12,360 $ 9,860 $ 8,906 $ 62,736 $ 131,013 ___________________ (1) Excluding interest, current capital lease obligations of $5.8 billion and $7.7 billion are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , and $8.4 billion and $9.6 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . (2) Excluding interest, current finance lease obligations of $282 million and $411 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , and $4.7 billion and $6.6 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . (3) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (4) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements and equipment lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (5) Excludes approximately $3.4 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $1.4 billion and $575 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. Suppliers During 2018 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Other Contingencies In 2016, we determined that we processed and delivered orders of consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act or other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review is ongoing and we have voluntarily reported these orders to the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. We intend to cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS with respect to their review, which may result in the imposition of penalties. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. 69 Table of Contents 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_QuarterlyFinancialInformationDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition The entire disclosure for quarterly financial data. Includes, but is not limited to, tabular presentation of financial information for fiscal quarters, effect of year-end adjustments, and an explanation of matters or transactions that affect comparability of the information. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 270 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2126967 + Details Name: us-gaap_QuarterlyFinancialInformationTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 34 R20.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies (Policies) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Accounting Policies [Abstract] Segment Information We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. Prior Period Reclassifications Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the addition of restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated statements of cash flows as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. Principles of Consolidation Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Use of Estimates Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, and inventory valuation. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. Revenue Revenue Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin. A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including audiobooks, digital video, e-books, digital music, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. Other - Other revenue primarily includes sales of advertising services, which are recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $567 million , $468 million , and $623 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Additions to the allowance were $1.5 billion , $1.8 billion , and $2.3 billion and deductions from the allowance were $1.5 billion , $1.9 billion , and $2.3 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Included in “Inventories” on our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $411 million , $406 million , and $519 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. Fulfillment Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, and television advertising. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred Technology and Content Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred. General and Administrative General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience and employee level. Other Operating Expense, Net Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains (losses) of $21 million , $247 million , and $(206) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 and equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $67 million , $109 million , and $(131) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 Income Taxes Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject to U.S. taxation under the U.S. Tax Act, which also repeals U.S. taxation on the subsequent repatriation of those earnings. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 — Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , these warrants had a fair value of $441 million and $440 million , and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $67 million , $109 million , and $(131) million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , customer receivables, net, were $6.4 billion and $9.4 billion , vendor receivables, net, were $2.6 billion and $3.2 billion , and seller receivables, net, were $692 million and $710 million . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Software Development Costs Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction in our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to seven years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives provided by the landlord. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. As disclosed in “Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted,” our accounting for build-to-suit and finance leases will change on January 1, 2019. Asset Retirement Obligations Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives provided by the landlord. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. As disclosed in “Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted,” our accounting for build-to-suit and finance leases will change on January 1, 2019. Goodwill Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2018 , and determined that goodwill is no t impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual impairment test. Other Assets Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; video and music content, net of accumulated amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content Video and Music Content We obtain video and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions, which include both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage patterns, which typically ranges from one to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. Capitalized production costs associated with our original content are limited by the amount of revenue we expect to earn, which results in a portion being expensed as incurred. These capitalized costs are amortized to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. Investments Investments We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments and are classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statement of operations. We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments indicate impairment. For debt securities and equity method investments, we also evaluate whether declines in fair value of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include: quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Accrued Expenses and Other Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, customer liabilities, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $2.9 billion and $3.4 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns. Unearned Revenue Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2017 was $6.1 billion , of which $5.3 billion was recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018 , including adjustments related to the new revenue recognition guidance. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $19.3 billion as of December 31, 2018 . The weighted average remaining life of our long-term contracts is 3.3 years. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. Foreign Currency Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted and Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We adopted this ASU on January 1, 2018 for all revenue contracts with our customers using the modified retrospective approach and increased retained earnings by approximately $650 million . The adjustment primarily relates to the unredeemed portion of our gift cards, which are now recognized over the expected customer usage period rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote. We changed the recognition and classification of Amazon Prime memberships, which are now accounted for as a single performance obligation and recognized ratably over the membership period as service sales. Previously, Prime memberships were considered to be arrangements with multiple deliverables and were allocated among product sales and service sales. Other changes relate primarily to the presentation of revenue. Certain advertising services are now classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales, and sales of apps, in-app content, and certain digital media content are presented on a net basis. Prior year amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policy. The impact of applying this ASU for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily resulted in a decrease in product sales and an increase in service sales driven by the reclassification of Prime membership fees of approximately $3.8 billion . Service sales also increased by approximately $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 due to the reclassification of certain advertising services. In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 with no material impact to our consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 with an increase of approximately $250 million to retained earnings and deferred tax assets net of valuation allowances. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the consolidated statements of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be added to cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of cash flows. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 on a retrospective basis with the following impacts to our consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 17,272 $ (69 ) $ 17,203 Investing activities (9,876 ) 360 (9,516 ) Financing activities (3,740 ) 24 (3,716 ) Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 3,656 $ 315 $ 3,971 Year Ended December 31, 2017 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 18,434 $ (69 ) $ 18,365 Investing activities (27,819 ) 735 (27,084 ) Financing activities 9,860 68 9,928 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 475 $ 734 $ 1,209 Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than 12 months, in addition to those currently recorded, on our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation of leases within the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows will be generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU on January 1, 2019 with an immaterial cumulative adjustment to retained earnings rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. This adoption approach will result in a balance sheet presentation that will not be comparable to the prior period in the first year of adoption. The adoption of this ASU will result in the recognition of operating lease assets and liabilities of approximately $21 billion , which includes the reclassification of finance leases to operating leases of approximately $1.2 billion , and the derecognition of build-to-suit lease assets and liabilities when we do not control the building during the construction period of approximately $1.5 billion . X - Definition Accrued Expenses And Other, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_AccruedExpensesAndOtherPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Fulfillment Expenses, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_FulfillmentExpensesPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Other Assets, Noncurrent, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_OtherAssetsNoncurrentPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Other Nonoperating Income And Expense, Policy [Policy Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_OtherNonoperatingIncomeAndExpensePolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Other Operating Income And Expense, Policy [Policy Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_OtherOperatingIncomeAndExpensePolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for contract liabilities related to revenue from contracts with customer. + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_RevenuefromContractwithCustomerContractLiabilityPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Technology and Content Expenses, Policy [Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_TechnologyAndContentExpensesPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Video And Music Content, Policy [Policy Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_VideoAndMusicContentPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for advertising costs. For those costs that cannot be capitalized, discloses whether such costs are expensed as incurred or the first period in which the advertising takes place. For direct response advertising costs that are capitalized, describes those assets and the accounting policy used, including a description of the qualifying activity, the types of costs capitalized and the related amortization period. An entity also may disclose its accounting policy for cooperative advertising arrangements. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 340 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159346&loc=d3e8275-108329 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 340 -SubTopic 20 -Section 55 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=68054294&loc=d3e8384-108330 + Details Name: us-gaap_AdvertisingCostsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for legal obligation associated with retirement of long-lived asset that results from acquisition, construction, or development or from normal operation of long-lived asset. Excludes environmental remediation liability from improper or other-than-normal operation of long-lived asset, obligation arising in connection with leased property that meets definition of lease payments or variable lease payments and from plan to sell or otherwise dispose of a long-lived asset. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 410 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6392692&loc=d3e7535-110849 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_AssetRetirementObligationsPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for cash and cash equivalents, including the policy for determining which items are treated as cash equivalents. Other information that may be disclosed includes (1) the nature of any restrictions on the entity's use of its cash and cash equivalents, (2) whether the entity's cash and cash equivalents are insured or expose the entity to credit risk, (3) the classification of any negative balance accounts (overdrafts), and (4) the carrying basis of cash equivalents (for example, at cost) and whether the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates fair value. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 230 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=98513485&loc=d3e4273-108586 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(1)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 305 -SubTopic 10 -Section 05 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6375392&loc=d3e26790-107797 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for salaries, bonuses, incentive awards, postretirement and postemployment benefits granted to employees, including equity-based arrangements; discloses methodologies for measurement, and the bases for recognizing related assets and liabilities and recognizing and reporting compensation expense. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (b),(f(1)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109197908&loc=d3e5070-113901 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18726-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_CompensationRelatedCostsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy regarding (1) the principles it follows in consolidating or combining the separate financial statements, including the principles followed in determining the inclusion or exclusion of subsidiaries or other entities in the consolidated or combined financial statements and (2) its treatment of interests (for example, common stock, a partnership interest or other means of exerting influence) in other entities, for example consolidation or use of the equity or cost methods of accounting.  The accounting policy may also address the accounting treatment for intercompany accounts and transactions, noncontrolling interest, and the income statement treatment in consolidation for issuances of stock by a subsidiary. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 810 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (SX 210.3A-02) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27015204&loc=d3e355033-122828 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 810 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 3 -Subparagraph (SX 210.3A-03) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27015204&loc=d3e355100-122828 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 810 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109239629&loc=d3e5614-111684 + Details Name: us-gaap_ConsolidationPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for computing basic and diluted earnings or loss per share for each class of common stock and participating security. Addresses all significant policy factors, including any antidilutive items that have been excluded from the computation and takes into account stock dividends, splits and reverse splits that occur after the balance sheet date of the latest reporting period but before the issuance of the financial statements. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3550-109257 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3550-109257 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3630-109257 + Details Name: us-gaap_EarningsPerSharePolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for determining the fair value of financial instruments. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 60 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=7493716&loc=d3e21868-110260 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 825 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109250915&loc=d3e13279-108611 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueOfFinancialInstrumentsPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for (1) transactions denominated in a currency other than the reporting enterprise's functional currency, (2) translating foreign currency financial statements that are incorporated into the financial statements of the reporting enterprise by consolidation, combination, or the equity method of accounting, and (3) remeasurement of the financial statements of a foreign reporting enterprise in a hyperinflationary economy. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 830 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6450520&loc=d3e32583-110901 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 830 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6450222&loc=d3e30840-110895 + Details Name: us-gaap_ForeignCurrencyTransactionsAndTranslationsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for goodwill. This accounting policy also may address how an entity assesses and measures impairment of goodwill, how reporting units are determined, how goodwill is allocated to such units, and how the fair values of the reporting units are determined. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=108376223&loc=d3e13816-109267 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsGoodwillPolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for recognizing and measuring the impairment of long-lived assets. An entity also may disclose its accounting policy for long-lived assets to be sold. This policy excludes goodwill and intangible assets. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section 05 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109226317&loc=d3e202-110218 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 5.CC) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27011434&loc=d3e125687-122742 + Details Name: us-gaap_ImpairmentOrDisposalOfLongLivedAssetsPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for income taxes, which may include its accounting policies for recognizing and measuring deferred tax assets and liabilities and related valuation allowances, recognizing investment tax credits, operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards, and other carryforwards, methodologies for determining its effective income tax rate and the characterization of interest and penalties in the financial statements. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 20 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32847-109319 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 954 -SubTopic 740 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6491622&loc=d3e9504-115650 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 17 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32809-109319 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 19 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32840-109319 Reference 6: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 25 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84176650&loc=d3e32247-109318 Reference 7: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 28 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84176650&loc=d3e32280-109318 Reference 8: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 30 -Section 05 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65884525&loc=d3e40913-109327 + Details Name: us-gaap_IncomeTaxPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for costs incurred when both (1) the software is acquired, internally developed, or modified solely to meet the entity's internal needs, and (2) during the software's development or modification, no substantive plan exists or is being developed to market the software externally. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 40 -Section 30 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6389767&loc=d3e17916-109280 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 50 -Section 25 -Paragraph 6 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=16397303&loc=d3e19379-109286 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_InternalUseSoftwarePolicy Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of inventory accounting policy for inventory classes, including, but not limited to, basis for determining inventory amounts, methods by which amounts are added and removed from inventory classes, loss recognition on impairment of inventories, and situations in which inventories are stated above cost. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 330 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66092785&loc=d3e4556-108314 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6361739&loc=d3e7789-107766 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 270 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 6 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109236672&loc=d3e543-108305 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 330 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66092785&loc=d3e4492-108314 Reference 6: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.6(b)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 + Details Name: us-gaap_InventoryPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for investments in financial assets, including marketable securities (debt and equity securities with readily determinable fair values), investments accounted for under the equity method and cost method, securities borrowed and loaned, and repurchase and resale agreements. For marketable securities, the disclosure may include the entity's accounting treatment for transfers between investment categories and how the fair values for such securities are determined. Also, for all investments, an entity may describe its policy for assessing, recognizing and measuring impairment of the investment. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 320 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 5.M) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=65877573&loc=d3e87990-122713 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.2,12) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 320 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 6 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=82897076&loc=d3e27290-111563 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 323 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -Subparagraph (a)(2) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=114001798&loc=d3e33918-111571 + Details Name: us-gaap_InvestmentPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for leasing arrangement entered into by lessee. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 842 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=77888426&loc=SL77918666-209980 + Details Name: us-gaap_LesseeLeasesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy pertaining to new accounting pronouncements that may impact the entity's financial reporting. Includes, but is not limited to, quantification of the expected or actual impact. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_NewAccountingPronouncementsPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for reclassifications that affects the comparability of the financial statements. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 205 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6359566&loc=d3e326-107755 + Details Name: us-gaap_PriorPeriodReclassificationAdjustmentDescription Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for long-lived, physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, basis of assets, depreciation and depletion methods used, including composite deprecation, estimated useful lives, capitalization policy, accounting treatment for costs incurred for repairs and maintenance, capitalized interest and the method it is calculated, disposals and impairments. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.13(a)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6391035&loc=d3e2868-110229 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for trade and other accounts receivable, and finance, loan and lease receivables, including those classified as held for investment and held for sale. This disclosure may include (1) the basis at which such receivables are carried in the entity's statements of financial position (2) how the level of the valuation allowance for receivables is determined (3) when impairments, charge-offs or recoveries are recognized for such receivables (4) the treatment of origination fees and costs, including the amortization method for net deferred fees or costs (5) the treatment of any premiums or discounts or unearned income (6) the entity's income recognition policies for such receivables, including those that are impaired, past due or placed on nonaccrual status and (7) the treatment of foreclosures or repossessions (8) the nature and amount of any guarantees to repurchase receivables. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(4)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 310 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84159169&loc=d3e10133-111534 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 310 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84173941&loc=d3e4975-111524 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 944 -SubTopic 210 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.7-03(a)(5)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6879938&loc=d3e572229-122910 Reference 6: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(3)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 + Details Name: us-gaap_ReceivablesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for revenue recognition. If the entity has different policies for different types of revenue transactions, the policy for each material type of transaction is generally disclosed. If a sales transaction has multiple element arrangements (for example, delivery of multiple products, services or the rights to use assets) the disclosure may indicate the accounting policy for each unit of accounting as well as how units of accounting are determined and valued. The disclosure may encompass important judgment as to appropriateness of principles related to recognition of revenue. The disclosure also may indicate the entity's treatment of any unearned or deferred revenue that arises from the transaction. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/otherTransitionRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/otherTransitionRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18726-107790 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/otherTransitionRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18823-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_RevenueRecognitionPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for segment reporting. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_SegmentReportingPolicyPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for inclusion of significant items in the selling, general and administrative (or similar) expense report caption. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 720 -SubTopic 35 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6420018&loc=d3e36677-107848 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84158767&loc=d3e18780-107790 + Details Name: us-gaap_SellingGeneralAndAdministrativeExpensesPolicyTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Disclosure of accounting policy for the use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. + References Reference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 12 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e6191-108592 Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 11 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e6161-108592 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 9 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e6143-108592 Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e5967-108592 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 4 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e6061-108592 Reference 6: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 8 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e6132-108592 Reference 7: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 275 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99393423&loc=d3e5967-108592 + Details Name: us-gaap_UseOfEstimates Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 35 R21.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Description of Business and Accounting Policies (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Accounting Policies [Abstract] Schedule of Calculation of Diluted Shares The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 474 480 487 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 10 13 13 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 484 493 500 Schedule of New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Principles We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 on a retrospective basis with the following impacts to our consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 17,272 $ (69 ) $ 17,203 Investing activities (9,876 ) 360 (9,516 ) Financing activities (3,740 ) 24 (3,716 ) Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 3,656 $ 315 $ 3,971 Year Ended December 31, 2017 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 18,434 $ (69 ) $ 18,365 Investing activities (27,819 ) 735 (27,084 ) Financing activities 9,860 68 9,928 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 475 $ 734 $ 1,209 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of changes in accounting principles, including adoption of new accounting pronouncements, that describes the new methods, amount and effects on financial statement line items. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 250 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109234566&loc=d3e22499-107794 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 270 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 13 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109236672&loc=d3e765-108305 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 270 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.10-01.(b)(6)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=27015980&loc=d3e46468-122699 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 250 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109234566&loc=d3e22580-107794 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 270 -SubTopic 10 -Section 45 -Paragraph 12 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109236672&loc=d3e725-108305 Reference 6: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 250 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109234566&loc=d3e22583-107794 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfNewAccountingPronouncementsAndChangesInAccountingPrinciplesTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic net earnings per share (or unit) and diluted earnings per share (or unit). + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 260 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6371337&loc=d3e3550-109257 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfWeightedAverageNumberOfSharesTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 36 R22.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Investments, Debt and Equity Securities [Abstract] Summary of Fair Value by Major Security Type The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2017 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 9,982 $ — $ — $ 9,982 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 11,343 — — 11,343 Equity securities 23 30 — 53 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 620 — — 620 U.S. government and agency securities 4,841 1 (19 ) 4,823 Corporate debt securities 4,265 1 (9 ) 4,257 Asset-backed securities 910 — (5 ) 905 Other fixed income securities 340 — (2 ) 338 $ 32,324 $ 32 $ (35 ) $ 32,321 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (1,335 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 30,986 December 31, 2018 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,406 $ — $ — $ 10,406 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 12,515 — — 12,515 Equity securities 29 143 (2 ) 170 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 815 — — 815 U.S. government and agency securities 11,686 1 (20 ) 11,667 Corporate debt securities 5,008 1 (19 ) 4,990 Asset-backed securities 896 — (4 ) 892 Other fixed income securities 190 — (2 ) 188 Equity securities 28 5 — 33 $ 41,573 $ 150 $ (47 ) $ 41,676 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (426 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 41,250 ___________________ (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.” Summary of Gross Realized Gains (Losses) on Investments The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale fixed income marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Realized gains $ 3 $ 5 $ 2 Realized losses 11 11 9 Summary of Contractual Maturities of Investments The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 27,520 $ 27,508 Due after one year through five years 2,865 2,845 Due after five years through ten years 187 185 Due after ten years 538 529 Total $ 31,110 $ 31,067 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. X - Definition Tabular disclosure of assets, including [financial] instruments measured at fair value that are classified in stockholders' equity, if any, by class that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The disclosures contemplated herein include the fair value measurements at the reporting date by the level within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements in their entirety fall, segregating fair value measurements using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1), significant other observable inputs (Level 2), and significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99377789&loc=d3e19207-110258 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99377789&loc=d3e19190-110258 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=99377789&loc=d3e19207-110258 + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueAssetsMeasuredOnRecurringBasisTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of maturities of an entity's investments as well as any other information pertinent to the investments. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_InvestmentsClassifiedByContractualMaturityDateTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_InvestmentsDebtAndEquitySecuritiesAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of realized gains and losses on investments reported in the statement of income. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_RealizedGainLossOnInvestmentsTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 37 R23.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities Reconciliation to Cash Flow (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Cash and Cash Equivalents [Abstract] Reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash [Table Text Block] The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $ 20,522 $ 31,750 Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other 1,329 418 Restricted cash included in other assets 5 5 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows $ 21,856 $ 32,173 X - Definition [Table Text Block] for Reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash [Table] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_ReconciliationofcashcashequivalentsandrestrictedcashTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_CashAndCashEquivalentsAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 38 R24.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Property and Equipment (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Property, Plant and Equipment [Abstract] Property and Equipment, at Cost Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 23,896 $ 31,741 Equipment 42,244 54,591 Other assets 2,438 2,577 Construction in progress 4,078 6,861 Gross property and equipment 72,656 95,770 Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 23,790 33,973 Total property and equipment, net $ 48,866 $ 61,797 ___________________ (1) We revised our prior year presentation of gross property and equipment and total accumulated depreciation and amortization to include all property and equipment in service, including equipment which is fully-depreciated, to conform to the current year presentation. Total property and equipment, net remains unchanged for the prior year. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, balances by class of assets, depreciation and depletion expense and method used, including composite depreciation, and accumulated deprecation. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02(13)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 360 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6391035&loc=d3e2868-110229 + Details Name: us-gaap_PropertyPlantAndEquipmentTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 39 R25.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Business Combinations [Abstract] Allocation of Aggregate Purchase Price of Acquisitions The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 81 $ 13,859 $ 1,618 Indemnification holdback 22 104 31 $ 103 $ 13,963 $ 1,649 Allocation Goodwill $ 60 $ 9,501 $ 1,228 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 2 1,987 186 Contract-based 1 440 13 Technology-based 53 166 285 Customer-related 1 54 193 57 2,647 677 Property and equipment 3 3,810 11 Deferred tax assets 17 117 174 Other assets acquired 10 1,858 282 Long-term debt (5 ) (1,165 ) (176 ) Deferred tax liabilities (18 ) (961 ) (159 ) Other liabilities assumed (21 ) (1,844 ) (388 ) $ 103 $ 13,963 $ 1,649 ___________________ (1) Intangible assets acquired in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 have estimated useful lives of between one and seven years, one and twenty-five years, and two and seven years, with weighted-average amortization periods of five years, twenty-one years, and six years. Summary of Goodwill Activity The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2017 and 2018 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2017 $ 2,044 $ 694 $ 1,046 $ 3,784 New acquisitions (1) 9,115 368 18 9,501 Other adjustments (2) 6 46 13 65 Goodwill - December 31, 2017 11,165 1,108 1,077 13,350 New acquisitions (1) 1,031 177 20 1,228 Other adjustments (2) (5 ) (15 ) (10 ) (30 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2018 $ 12,191 $ 1,270 $ 1,087 $ 14,548 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes the acquisition of Whole Foods Market in the North America segment and Souq in the International segment in 2017 and the acquisitions of Ring and PillPack in the North America segment in 2018. (2) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. Schedule of Acquired Finite-Lived Intangible Assets by Major Class Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ 2,486 $ (418 ) $ 2,068 $ 2,542 $ (431 ) $ 2,111 21.2 Contract-based 1,013 (213 ) 800 1,430 (224 ) 1,206 12.3 Technology- and content-based 640 (252 ) 388 941 (377 ) 564 4.6 Customer-related 283 (168 ) 115 437 (208 ) 229 4.4 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 4,422 $ (1,051 ) $ 3,371 $ 5,350 $ (1,240 ) $ 4,110 15.4 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years. Schedule of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets, Future Amortization Expense Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2018 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 $ 511 2020 412 2021 355 2022 323 2023 270 Thereafter 2,217 $ 4,088 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_BusinessCombinationsAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the characteristics, including initial carrying value, residual amount, weighted average useful life, of finite-lived intangible assets acquired during the period by major class. A major class is composed of intangible assets that can be grouped together because they are similar, either by nature or by their use in the operations of the company. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66006027&loc=d3e16265-109275 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfAcquiredFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of goodwill by reportable segment and in total which includes a rollforward schedule. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=108376223&loc=d3e13816-109267 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=108376223&loc=d3e13854-109267 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfGoodwillTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. May include but not limited to the following: (a) acquired receivables; (b) contingencies recognized at the acquisition date; and (c) the fair value of noncontrolling interests in the acquiree. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 805 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84161108&loc=d3e4845-128472 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfRecognizedIdentifiedAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the amount of amortization expense expected to be recorded in succeeding fiscal years for finite-lived intangible assets. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=66006027&loc=d3e16323-109275 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleofFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsFutureAmortizationExpenseTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 40 R26.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Long-Term Debt (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Debt Disclosure [Abstract] Long-Term Debt Obligations The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 (2) 1,000 1,000 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 (3) 1,000 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 (3) 1,000 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 (3) 2,000 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 (4) 1,000 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 (3) 3,500 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 (3) 2,750 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 (3) 3,500 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 (3) 2,250 2,250 Credit Facility 592 594 Other long-term debt 100 121 Total debt 24,942 24,965 Less current portion of long-term debt (100 ) (1,371 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 24,842 $ 23,594 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rate of the 2022 Notes was 2.66% . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2019, 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 2.73% , 3.43% , 3.90% , 4.92% , and 5.11% . (3) Issued in August 2017, effective interest rates of the 2020, 2023, 2024, 2027, 2037, 2047, and 2057 Notes were 2.16% , 2.56% , 2.95% , 3.25% , 3.94% , 4.13% , and 4.33% . (4) Consists of $872 million of 2025 Notes issued in December 2017 in exchange for notes assumed in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market and $128 million of 2025 Notes issued by Whole Foods Market that did not participate in our December 2017 exchange offer. The effective interest rate of the 2025 Notes was 3.02% . Future Principal Payments for Debt As of December 31, 2018 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 $ 1,371 2020 1,298 2021 1,016 2022 1,266 2023 1,014 Thereafter 19,000 $ 24,965 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_DebtDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of long-debt instruments or arrangements, including identification, terms, features, collateral requirements and other information necessary to a fair presentation. These are debt arrangements that originally required repayment more than twelve months after issuance or greater than the normal operating cycle of the entity, if longer. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.5-02.22) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6877327&loc=d3e13212-122682 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 835 -SubTopic 30 -Section 45 -Paragraph 1A -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=114775744&loc=d3e28541-108399 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 6 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109259400&loc=d3e21506-112644 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.4-08.(e),(f)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=26873400&loc=d3e23780-122690 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 835 -SubTopic 30 -Section 45 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=114775744&loc=d3e28551-108399 Reference 6: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 7 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109259400&loc=d3e21521-112644 Reference 7: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 8 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109259400&loc=d3e21538-112644 Reference 8: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 942 -SubTopic 470 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=75038535&loc=d3e64711-112823 Reference 9: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 835 -SubTopic 30 -Section 55 -Paragraph 8 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=114775985&loc=d3e28878-108400 Reference 10: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 505 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 3 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109259400&loc=d3e21475-112644 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfDebtInstrumentsTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the combined aggregate amount of maturities and sinking fund requirements for all long-term borrowings for each of the five years following the date of the latest balance sheet date presented. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6802200&loc=d3e1835-112601 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfMaturitiesOfLongTermDebtTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 41 R27.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Other Long-Term Liabilities (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Other Liabilities Disclosure [Abstract] Summary of Other Long-term Liabilities Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Long-term capital lease obligations $ 8,438 $ 9,650 Long-term finance lease obligations 4,745 6,642 Construction liabilities 1,350 2,516 Tax contingencies 1,004 896 Long-term deferred tax liabilities 990 1,490 Other 4,448 6,019 Total other long-term liabilities $ 20,975 $ 27,213 Schedule of Long-term Capital Lease Obligations Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 Gross capital lease obligations $ 17,952 Less imputed interest (582 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 17,370 Less current portion of capital lease obligations (7,720 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 9,650 Schedule of Long-term Finance Lease Obligations Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 Gross finance lease obligations $ 8,376 Less imputed interest (1,323 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 7,053 Less current portion of finance lease obligations (411 ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ 6,642 X - Definition Schedule of Capital Lease Obligations [Table Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_ScheduleOfCapitalLeaseObligationsTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Schedule of Finance Lease Obligations [Table Text Block] + References No definition available. + Details Name: amzn_ScheduleofFinanceLeaseObligationsTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: amzn_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_OtherLiabilitiesDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of other liabilities. + References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_OtherLiabilitiesTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 42 R28.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Commitments and Contingencies (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Commitments and Contingencies Disclosure [Abstract] Principal Contractual Commitments, Excluding Open Orders for Purchases The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 2,277 $ 2,161 $ 1,861 $ 2,078 $ 1,781 $ 30,013 $ 40,171 Capital lease obligations, including interest (1) 7,807 5,742 2,725 704 473 501 17,952 Finance lease obligations, including interest (2) 628 640 652 664 675 5,117 8,376 Operating leases 3,127 3,070 2,775 2,473 2,195 13,026 26,666 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 3,523 4,103 3,291 3,098 2,974 5,204 22,193 Other commitments (4) (5) 2,618 1,455 1,056 843 808 8,875 15,655 Total commitments $ 19,980 $ 17,171 $ 12,360 $ 9,860 $ 8,906 $ 62,736 $ 131,013 ___________________ (1) Excluding interest, current capital lease obligations of $5.8 billion and $7.7 billion are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , and $8.4 billion and $9.6 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . (2) Excluding interest, current finance lease obligations of $282 million and $411 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 , and $4.7 billion and $6.6 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 . (3) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (4) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements and equipment lease arrangements that have not been placed in service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (5) Excludes approximately $3.4 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_CommitmentsAndContingenciesDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the aggregate amount of payments due on known contractual obligations for the five years following the date of the latest balance sheet and the combined aggregate amount of maturities of known contractual obligations. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher SEC -Name Regulation S-K (SK) -Number 229 -Section 303 -Paragraph a -Subparagraph 5 + Details Name: us-gaap_ContractualObligationFiscalYearMaturityScheduleTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 43 R29.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Stockholders' Equity (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Disclosure of Compensation Related Costs, Share-based Payments [Abstract] Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Cost of sales $ 16 $ 47 $ 73 Fulfillment 657 911 1,121 Marketing 323 511 769 Technology and content 1,664 2,305 2,888 General and administrative 315 441 567 Total stock-based compensation expense (1) $ 2,975 $ 4,215 $ 5,418 ___________________ (1) The related tax benefits were $907 million , $860 million , and $1.1 billion for 2016, 2017, and 2018. In 2017 and 2018, the tax benefit reflects the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% . Summary of Restricted Stock Unit Activity The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2016 18.9 $ 362 Units granted 9.3 660 Units vested (6.1 ) 321 Units forfeited (2.3 ) 440 Outstanding as of December 31, 2016 19.8 506 Units granted 8.9 946 Units vested (6.8 ) 400 Units forfeited (1.8 ) 649 Outstanding as of December 31, 2017 20.1 725 Units granted 5.0 1,522 Units vested (7.1 ) 578 Units forfeited (2.1 ) 862 Outstanding as of December 31, 2018 15.9 $ 1,024 Scheduled Vesting of Outstanding Restricted Stock Units Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2018 , is as follows (in millions): Year Ended 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting — restricted stock units 6.9 5.6 2.4 0.8 0.1 0.1 15.9 X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_DisclosureOfCompensationRelatedCostsSharebasedPaymentsAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the amount of total share-based compensation cost, including the amounts attributable to each share-based compensation plan and any related tax benefits. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (h)(1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109197908&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfCompensationCostForShareBasedPaymentArrangementsAllocationOfShareBasedCompensationCostsByPlanTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the changes in outstanding nonvested restricted stock units. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (c)(2) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109197908&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfNonvestedRestrictedStockUnitsActivityTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of number, weighted-average exercise price or conversion ratio, aggregate intrinsic value, and weighted-average remaining contractual term for outstanding restricted stock units that are fully vested and expected to vest. Includes, but is not limited to, unvested restricted stock units for which requisite service period has not been rendered but that are expected to vest based on achievement of performance condition, if forfeitures are recognized when they occur. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 718 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (e)(1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109197908&loc=d3e5070-113901 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfShareBasedCompensationArrangementByShareBasedPaymentAwardRestrictedStockUnitsVestedAndExpectedToVestTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 44 R30.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Income Taxes (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Income Tax Disclosure [Abstract] Components of Provision for Income Taxes, Net The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current taxes: U.S. Federal $ 1,136 $ (137 ) $ (129 ) U.S. State 208 211 322 International 327 724 563 Current taxes 1,671 798 756 Deferred taxes: U.S. Federal 116 (202 ) 565 U.S. State (31 ) (26 ) 5 International (331 ) 199 (129 ) Deferred taxes (246 ) (29 ) 441 Provision for income taxes, net $ 1,425 $ 769 $ 1,197 Components of Income Before Income Taxes, Domestic and Foreign U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 U.S. $ 4,551 $ 5,630 $ 11,157 International (659 ) (1,824 ) 104 Income before income taxes $ 3,892 $ 3,806 $ 11,261 Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate (1) $ 1,362 $ 1,332 $ 2,365 Effect of: Tax impact of foreign earnings (69 ) 1,178 119 State taxes, net of federal benefits 110 114 263 Tax credits (119 ) (220 ) (419 ) Stock-based compensation (2) 189 (917 ) (1,086 ) Domestic production activities deduction (94 ) — — 2017 Impact of U.S. Tax Act — (789 ) (157 ) Other, net 46 71 112 Total $ 1,425 $ 769 $ 1,197 ___________________ (1) The U.S. Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018. (2) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and beginning in 2017, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. For 2017 and 2018, our tax provision includes $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 Deferred tax assets (1): Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States $ 211 $ 222 Loss carryforwards - Foreign 2,149 2,551 Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses 901 1,064 Stock-based compensation 1,026 1,293 Deferred revenue 349 321 Assets held for investment 35 69 Depreciation and amortization 279 2,386 Other items 167 94 Tax credits 381 734 Total gross deferred tax assets 5,498 8,734 Less valuation allowance (2) (2,538 ) (4,950 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 2,960 3,784 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization (2,568 ) (3,579 ) Acquisition related intangible assets (531 ) (682 ) Other items (58 ) (67 ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowance $ (197 ) $ (544 ) ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets are presented net of tax contingencies. (2) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. Reconciliation of Tax Contingencies The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 1,181 $ 1,710 $ 2,309 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 355 223 164 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (133 ) (139 ) (90 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 308 518 1,088 Settlements with tax authorities — — (36 ) Lapse of statute of limitations (1 ) (3 ) (21 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 1,710 $ 2,309 $ 3,414 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately $3.4 billion of accrued tax contingencies, of which $1.7 billion , if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the components of income tax expense attributable to continuing operations for each year presented including, but not limited to: current tax expense (benefit), deferred tax expense (benefit), investment tax credits, government grants, the benefits of operating loss carryforwards, tax expense that results from allocating certain tax benefits either directly to contributed capital or to reduce goodwill or other noncurrent intangible assets of an acquired entity, adjustments of a deferred tax liability or asset for enacted changes in tax laws or rates or a change in the tax status of the entity, and adjustments of the beginning-of-the-year balances of a valuation allowance because of a change in circumstances that causes a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset in future years. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 9 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32639-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfComponentsOfIncomeTaxExpenseBenefitTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the components of net deferred tax asset or liability recognized in an entity's statement of financial position, including the following: the total of all deferred tax liabilities, the total of all deferred tax assets, the total valuation allowance recognized for deferred tax assets. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32537-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfDeferredTaxAssetsAndLiabilitiesTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the reconciliation using percentage or dollar amounts of the reported amount of income tax expense attributable to continuing operations for the year to the amount of income tax expense that would result from applying domestic federal statutory tax rates to pretax income from continuing operations. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 12 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32687-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfEffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of income before income tax between domestic and foreign jurisdictions. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.4-08.(h)(1)(i)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=26873400&loc=d3e23780-122690 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfIncomeBeforeIncomeTaxDomesticAndForeignTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure for tax positions taken in the tax returns filed or to be filed for which it is more likely than not that the tax position will not be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities and other income tax contingencies. Includes, but is not limited to, interest and penalties, reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits, unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the effective tax rate, tax years that remain subject to examination by tax jurisdictions, and information about positions for which it is reasonably possible that amounts unrecognized will significantly change within 12 months. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 15A -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=SL6600010-109319 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 15 -Subparagraph (d) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32718-109319 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 19 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=84230637&loc=d3e32840-109319 + Details Name: us-gaap_SummaryOfIncomeTaxContingenciesTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 45 R31.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Segment Information (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Segment Reporting [Abstract] Information on Reportable Segments and Reconciliation to Consolidated Net Income (Loss) Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 North America Net sales $ 79,785 $ 106,110 $ 141,366 Operating expenses 77,424 103,273 134,099 Operating income $ 2,361 $ 2,837 $ 7,267 International Net sales $ 43,983 $ 54,297 $ 65,866 Operating expenses 45,266 57,359 68,008 Operating income (loss) $ (1,283 ) $ (3,062 ) $ (2,142 ) AWS Net sales $ 12,219 $ 17,459 $ 25,655 Operating expenses 9,111 13,128 18,359 Operating income $ 3,108 $ 4,331 $ 7,296 Consolidated Net sales $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 Operating expenses 131,801 173,760 220,466 Operating income 4,186 4,106 12,421 Total non-operating income (expense) (294 ) (300 ) (1,160 ) Provision for income taxes (1,425 ) (769 ) (1,197 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (96 ) (4 ) 9 Net income $ 2,371 $ 3,033 $ 10,073 Disaggregation of Revenue Net sales by groups of similar products and services, which also have similar economic characteristics, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Net Sales: Online stores (1) $ 91,431 $ 108,354 $ 122,987 Physical stores (2) — 5,798 17,224 Third-party seller services (3) 22,993 31,881 42,745 Subscription services (4) 6,394 9,721 14,168 AWS 12,219 17,459 25,655 Other (5) 2,950 4,653 10,108 Consolidated $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 ___________________ (1) Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, music, videos, games, and software. These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in Subscription services. (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store. (3) Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. (4) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as audiobook, digital video, e-book, digital music, and other non-AWS subscription services. (5) Primarily includes sales of advertising services, as well as sales related to our other service offerings. Net Sales Attributed to Countries that Represent a Significant Portion of Consolidated Net Sales Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 United States $ 90,349 $ 120,486 $ 160,146 Germany 14,148 16,951 19,881 United Kingdom 9,547 11,372 14,524 Japan 10,797 11,907 13,829 Rest of world 11,146 17,150 24,507 Consolidated $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 Reconciliation of Assets from Segment to Consolidated Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 2018 North America (1) $ 22,225 $ 35,844 $ 47,251 International (1) 10,429 18,014 19,923 AWS (2) 12,698 18,660 26,340 Corporate 38,050 58,792 69,134 Consolidated $ 83,402 $ 131,310 $ 162,648 ___________________ (1) North America and International segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable. (2) AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts receivable. Reconciliation of Property and Equipment from Segments to Consolidated Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2016 2017 2018 North America $ 10,143 $ 20,401 $ 27,052 International 3,448 7,425 8,552 AWS 10,300 14,885 18,851 Corporate 5,223 6,155 7,342 Consolidated $ 29,114 $ 48,866 $ 61,797 Reconciliation of Property and Equipment Additions and Depreciation from Segments to Consolidated Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 North America (1) $ 5,132 $ 13,200 $ 10,749 International (1) 1,680 5,196 2,476 AWS (2) 5,193 9,190 9,783 Corporate 1,580 2,197 2,060 Consolidated $ 13,585 $ 29,783 $ 25,068 ___________________ (1) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases of $1.5 billion , $2.9 billion , and $2.0 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , and under other financing arrangements of $849 million , $2.9 billion , and $3.0 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . (2) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases of $4.0 billion , $7.3 billion , and $8.4 billion in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 , and under finance leases of $75 million , $134 million , and $245 million in 2016 , 2017 , and 2018 . Total depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 North America $ 1,971 $ 3,029 $ 4,415 International 930 1,278 1,628 AWS 3,461 4,524 6,095 Consolidated $ 6,362 $ 8,831 $ 12,138 X - Definition Tabular disclosure of disaggregation of revenue into categories depicting how nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factor. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 606 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 5 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=109196051&loc=SL49130545-203045 + Details Name: us-gaap_DisaggregationOfRevenueTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments, long-term customer relationships of a financial institution, mortgage rights, deferred policy acquisition costs, and deferred tax assets, by geographic areas located in the entity's country of domicile and foreign countries in which the entity holds assets. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 41 -Subparagraph b -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e9038-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_LongLivedAssetsByGeographicAreasTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of all significant reconciling items in the reconciliation of total assets from reportable segments to the entity's consolidated assets. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 30 -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8906-108599 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 31 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8924-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ReconciliationOfAssetsFromSegmentToConsolidatedTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of each significant reconciling item, other than profit (loss), revenues, or assets, in the reconciliation of totals of such items in reportable segments to the entity's corresponding consolidated amount. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 31 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8924-108599 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 30 -Subparagraph (d) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8906-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ReconciliationOfOtherSignificantReconcilingItemsFromSegmentsToConsolidatedTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of revenue from external customers by geographic areas attributed to the entity's country of domicile and to foreign countries from which the entity derives revenue. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 41 -Subparagraph a -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e9038-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_RevenueFromExternalCustomersByGeographicAreasTableTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - Definition Tabular disclosure of the profit or loss and total assets for each reportable segment. An entity discloses certain information on each reportable segment if the amounts (a) are included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker or (b) are otherwise regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker, even if not included in that measure of segment profit or loss. + References Reference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 22 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8736-108599 Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 25 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8813-108599 Reference 3: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=108376223&loc=d3e13816-109267 Reference 4: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 21 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8721-108599 Reference 5: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 280 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 30 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=115929826&loc=d3e8906-108599 + Details Name: us-gaap_ScheduleOfSegmentReportingInformationBySegmentTextBlock Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: nonnum:textBlockItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration X - References No definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_SegmentReportingAbstract Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_ Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType Balance Type: na Period Type: duration XML 46 R32.htm IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT v3.10.0.1 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) (Tables) 12 Months Ended Dec. 31, 2018 Quarterly Financial Information Disclosure [Abstract] Quarterly Financial Information Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2017 (1) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter (2) Fourth Quarter (2) Net sales $ 35,714 $ 37,955 $ 43,744 $ 60,453 Operating income 1,005 628 347 2,127 Income before income taxes 953 666 316 1,872 Provision for income taxes (229 ) (467 ) (58 ) (16 ) Net income 724 197 256 1,856 Basic earnings per share 1.52 0.41 0.53 3.85 Diluted earnings per share 1.48 0.40 0.52 3.75 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 477 479 481 483 Diluted 490 492 494 496 Year Ended December 31, 2018 (1) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ 51,042 $ 52,886 $ 56,576 $ 72,383 Operating income 1,927 2,983 3,724 3,786 Income before income taxes 1,916 2,605 3,390 3,350 Provision for income taxes (287 ) (74 ) (508 ) (327 ) Net income 1,629 2,534 2,883 3,027 Basic earnings per share 3.36 5.21 5.91 6.18 Diluted earnings per share 3.27 5.07 5.75 6.04 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 484 486 488 490 Diluted 498 500 501 501 ___________________ (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. (2) We acquired Whole Foods Market on August 28, 2017. The results of Whole Foods Market have been included in our results of operation from the date of acquisition. See 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our stores to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring, and other devices, and we develop and produce media content. We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on over 100 million items, access to unlimited streaming of tens of thousands of movies and TV episodes, including Amazon Original content, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington and Arlington, Virginia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings.” 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 (1) 2018 2019 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 107,006 $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 $ 280,522 Operating income $ 2,233 $ 4,186 $ 4,106 $ 12,421 $ 14,541 Net income (loss) $ 596 $ 2,371 $ 3,033 $ 10,073 $ 11,588 Basic earnings per share (2) $ 1.28 $ 5.01 $ 6.32 $ 20.68 $ 23.46 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ 1.25 $ 4.90 $ 6.15 $ 20.14 $ 23.01 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 467 474 480 487 494 Diluted 477 484 493 500 504 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (3) $ 11,909 $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 $ 38,514 December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (4) (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 64,747 $ 83,402 $ 131,310 $ 162,648 $ 225,248 Total long-term obligations $ 17,477 $ 20,301 $ 45,718 $ 50,708 $ 75,376 ___________________ (1) We acquired Whole Foods Market on August 28, 2017. The results of Whole Foods Market have been included in our results of operation from the date of acquisition. (2) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (3) As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to add restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents, which restated cash provided by operating activities by $(130) million, $(69) million, and $(69) million in 2015, 2016, and 2017. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies” for additional information. (4) As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance on January 1, 2019, we recognized lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than twelve months. Prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies” for additional information. 18 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” _______________________ (3) The operating cycle is the number of days of sales in inventory plus the number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 20 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2019 , we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $230 million . In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the U.S. tax reform legislation commonly known as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “U.S. Tax Act”). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the U.S. Tax Act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. Tax Act significantly changed how the U.S. taxes corporations. The U.S. Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the U.S. Tax Act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the U.S. Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered. As future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 21 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 30,723 $ 38,514 Investing activities (12,369 ) (24,281 ) Financing activities (7,686 ) (10,066 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $41.3 billion and $55.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were $13.8 billion and $15.3 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $30.7 billion and $38.5 billion in 2018 and 2019 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(12.4) billion and $(24.3) billion in 2018 and 2019 , with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $11.3 billion , and $12.7 billion in 2018 and 2019 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS). We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $2.2 billion and $2.5 billion in 2018 and 2019 . Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(7.7) billion and $(10.1) billion in 2018 and 2019 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations and repayments of long-term debt and other, and were $8.5 billion and $12.3 billion in 2018 and 2019 . Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $10.6 billion and $13.7 billion in 2018 and 2019 , with the increase reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. We had no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) or unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and $740 million of borrowings outstanding under our $740 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of December 31, 2019 . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. In 2018 and 2019 , we recorded net tax provisions of $1.2 billion and $2.4 billion . Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject to U.S. taxation under the U.S. Tax Act, which also repeals U.S. taxation on the subsequent repatriation of those earnings. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign 22 Table of Contents subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. As of December 31, 2019 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $13.4 billion . Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. The U.S. Tax Act enhanced and extended accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $1.2 billion and $881 million for 2018 and 2019 . As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately $1.7 billion of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal tax credits we expect cash paid for taxes to increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with the European Commission’s October 2017 decision against us on state aid, Luxembourg tax authorities computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’s decision, of approximately €250 million , that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” and “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $426 million and $321 million . See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $15.7 billion as of December 31, 2019 . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, Amazon Prime membership fees, advertising services, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Net Sales: North America $ 141,366 $ 170,773 International 65,866 74,723 AWS 25,655 35,026 Consolidated $ 232,887 $ 280,522 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 33 % 21 % International 21 13 AWS 47 37 Consolidated 31 20 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 33 % 21 % International 19 17 AWS 47 37 Consolidated 30 22 Net sales mix: North America 61 % 61 % International 28 27 AWS 11 12 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 20% in 2019 , compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $1.3 billion and $(2.6) billion for 2018 and 2019 . For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of foreign exchange rates, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 21% in 2019 , compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased 13% in 2019 , compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $1.3 billion and $(2.4) billion in 2018 and 2019 . AWS sales increased 37 % in 2019 , compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. 24 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 7,267 $ 7,033 International (2,142 ) (1,693 ) AWS 7,296 9,201 Consolidated $ 12,421 $ 14,541 Operating income was $12.4 billion and $14.5 billion for 2018 and 2019 . We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The decrease in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased shipping costs and marketing expense, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales and slower growth in certain operating expenses. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $17 million and $23 million for 2018 and 2019 . The decrease in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales, and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased marketing expense. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss by $258 million and $(116) million for 2018 and 2019 . The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by pricing changes and increased spending on technology infrastructure and payroll and related expenses, which was primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $(49) million and $273 million for 2018 and 2019 . 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 139,156 $ 165,536 Fulfillment 34,027 40,232 Technology and content 28,837 35,931 Marketing 13,814 18,878 General and administrative 4,336 5,203 Other operating expense (income), net 296 201 Total operating expenses $ 220,466 $ 265,981 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 24 % 19 % Fulfillment 35 18 Technology and content 27 25 Marketing 37 37 General and administrative 18 20 Other operating expense (income), net 38 (32 ) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 59.8 % 59.0 % Fulfillment 14.6 14.3 Technology and content 12.4 12.8 Marketing 5.9 6.7 General and administrative 1.9 1.9 Other operating expense (income), net 0.1 0.1 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $27.7 billion and $37.9 billion in 2018 and 2019 . We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. 26 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels and costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to an increase in spending on technology infrastructure and increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings. We expect technology and content costs to grow at a slower rate in 2020 due to an increase in the estimated useful life of our servers, which will impact each of our segments. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies — Use of Estimates” for additional information on the change in estimated useful life of our servers. Marketing Marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, third party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased spending on marketing channels, as well as payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. 27 Table of Contents General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $296 million and $201 million during 2018 and 2019 , and is primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $440 million and $832 million during 2018 and 2019 . We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2018 and 2019 . The increase is primarily related to finance leases. Our long-term lease liabilities were $9.7 billion and $39.8 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . Our long-term debt was $23.5 billion and $23.4 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 .  See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(183) million and $203 million during 2018 and 2019 . The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity securities and warrant valuations and foreign currency. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $1.2 billion and $2.4 billion in 2018 and 2019 . Our provision for income taxes in 2019 was higher than in 2018 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, a decline in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the one-time provisional tax benefit of the U.S. Tax Act recognized in 2018. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. The U.S. Tax Act enhanced and extended accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately $1.7 billion of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. We adopted new lease accounting guidance on January 1, 2019 without retrospectively adjusting prior periods. As a result, the line items used in our calculation of measures of free cash flows have changed. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” 28 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives.” The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2018 and 2019 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 30,723 $ 38,514 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (11,323 ) (12,689 ) Free cash flow $ 19,400 $ 25,825 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (12,369 ) $ (24,281 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (7,686 ) $ (10,066 ) Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance leases” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” Principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2018 and 2019 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 30,723 $ 38,514 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (11,323 ) (12,689 ) Free cash flow 19,400 25,825 Principal repayments of finance leases (1) (7,449 ) (9,628 ) Principal repayments of financing obligations (1) (337 ) (27 ) Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ 11,614 $ 16,170 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (12,369 ) $ (24,281 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (7,686 ) $ (10,066 ) _______________ (1) Amounts for 2018 have not been retrospectively adjusted. 29 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases,” principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities, which is included in “Principal repayments of finance leases,” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2018 and 2019 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 30,723 $ 38,514 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (11,323 ) (12,689 ) Free cash flow 19,400 25,825 Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (10,615 ) (12,916 ) Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) — (392 ) Principal repayments of financing obligations (337 ) (27 ) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations $ 8,448 $ 12,490 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (12,369 ) $ (24,281 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (7,686 ) $ (10,066 ) ___________________ (1) For the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 , this amount relates to equipment included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases” of $13,723 million . Amounts for 2018 have not been retrospectively adjusted. (2) For the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 , this amount relates to property included in “Principal repayments of finance leases” of $9,628 million . Amounts for 2018 have not been retrospectively adjusted. All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 30 Table of Contents Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year periods. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 Year Ended December 31, 2019 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 232,887 $ (1,253 ) $ 231,634 $ 280,522 $ 2,560 $ 283,082 Operating expenses 220,466 (1,027 ) 219,439 265,981 2,740 268,721 Operating income 12,421 (226 ) 12,195 14,541 (180 ) 14,361 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Guidance We provided guidance on January 30, 2020 , in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 30, 2020 , and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2019 (in millions, except percentages): 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2019 Money market funds $ 18,850 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 18,850 $ 18,850 Weighted average interest rate 1.09 % — % — % — % — % — % 1.09 % Corporate debt securities 7,629 2,988 1,052 152 8 — 11,829 11,881 Weighted average interest rate 2.29 % 2.63 % 2.57 % 2.38 % 2.90 % — % 2.41 % U.S. government and agency securities 4,893 1,634 486 43 16 — 7,072 7,080 Weighted average interest rate 1.64 % 2.09 % 2.01 % 2.29 % 2.03 % — % 1.77 % Asset-backed securities 1,492 546 180 95 38 — 2,351 2,360 Weighted average interest rate 2.57 % 2.52 % 2.53 % 2.29 % 2.52 % — % 2.54 % Foreign government and agency securities 4,630 168 4 — 2 — 4,804 4,794 Weighted average interest rate 1.90 % 2.57 % 2.08 % — % 2.30 % — % 1.92 % Other fixed income securities 93 94 129 75 — — 391 394 Weighted average interest rate 2.39 % 2.32 % 2.10 % 1.92 % — % — % 2.19 % $ 37,587 $ 5,430 $ 1,851 $ 365 $ 64 $ — $ 45,297 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities $ 45,359 32 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2019 , we had $24.8 billion of debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting of the following fixed rate unsecured debt (in millions): 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 $ 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 $ 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 $ 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 $ 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 $ 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 $ 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 $ 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 $ 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 $ 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 $ 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 $ 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 $ 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 $ 2,250 Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our total debt was $27.8 billion as of December 31, 2019 . Foreign Exchange Risk During 2019 , net sales from our International segment accounted for 27% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales decreased by $2.4 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2019 , of $15.3 billion , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $765 million , $1.5 billion , and $3.1 billion . Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2019 , an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $195 million , $385 million , and $775 million , recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Equity Investment Risk As of December 31, 2019 , our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $3.3 billion . Our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies represent $679 million of our investments as of December 31, 2019 , and are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. We perform a qualitative assessment for our equity investments in private companies to identify impairment. If this assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we estimate the fair value of the investment and, if the fair value is less than carrying value, we write down the investment to fair value. Our assessment includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 33 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 35 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 37 Consolidated Statements of Operations 38 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 39 Consolidated Balance Sheets 40 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 41 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 34 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019 and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019 and 2018 , and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019 , based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated January 30, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Adoption of New Accounting Standard As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has changed its method for accounting for leases in 2019 due to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). Basis for Opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. Uncertain Tax Positions Description of the Matter The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions and, as discussed in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements, during the ordinary course of business, there are many tax positions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The Company uses significant judgment in (1) determining whether a tax position’s technical merits are more likely than not to be sustained and (2) measuring the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. As of December 31, 2019, the Company accrued liabilities of $3.9 billion for various tax contingencies. Auditing the measurement of the Company’s tax contingencies was challenging because the evaluation of whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained and the measurement of the benefit of various tax positions can be complex, involves significant judgment, and is based on interpretations of tax laws and legal rulings. 35 Table of Contents How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit We tested controls over the Company’s process to assess the technical merits of its tax contingencies, including controls over the assessment as to whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, management’s process to measure the benefit of its tax positions, and the development of the related disclosures. We involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and research and development tax professionals in assessing the technical merits of certain of the Company’s tax positions. Depending on the nature of the specific tax position and, as applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the Company’s analysis including the Company’s correspondence with such tax authorities and evaluating the underlying facts upon which the tax positions are based. We used our knowledge of, and experience with, international, transfer pricing, and other income tax laws by the relevant income tax authorities to evaluate the Company’s accounting for its tax contingencies. We evaluated developments in the applicable regulatory environments to assess potential effects on the Company’s positions. We analyzed the Company’s assumptions and data used to determine the amount of tax benefits to recognize and tested the accuracy of the Company’s calculations. We have also evaluated the Company’s income tax disclosures included in Note 9 in relation to these matters. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1996. Seattle, Washington January 30, 2020 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 19,934 $ 21,856 $ 32,173 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 3,033 10,073 11,588 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized content costs, operating lease assets, and other 11,478 15,341 21,789 Stock-based compensation 4,215 5,418 6,864 Other operating expense (income), net 202 274 164 Other expense (income), net ( 292 ) 219 ( 249 ) Deferred income taxes ( 29 ) 441 796 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( 3,583 ) ( 1,314 ) ( 3,278 ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( 4,780 ) ( 4,615 ) ( 7,681 ) Accounts payable 7,100 3,263 8,193 Accrued expenses and other 283 472 ( 1,383 ) Unearned revenue 738 1,151 1,711 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 18,365 30,723 38,514 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment ( 11,955 ) ( 13,427 ) ( 16,861 ) Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives 1,897 2,104 4,172 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other ( 13,972 ) ( 2,186 ) ( 2,461 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 9,677 8,240 22,681 Purchases of marketable securities ( 12,731 ) ( 7,100 ) ( 31,812 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ( 27,084 ) ( 12,369 ) ( 24,281 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from long-term debt and other 16,228 768 2,273 Repayments of long-term debt and other ( 1,301 ) ( 668 ) ( 2,684 ) Principal repayments of finance leases ( 4,799 ) ( 7,449 ) ( 9,628 ) Principal repayments of financing obligations ( 200 ) ( 337 ) ( 27 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 9,928 ( 7,686 ) ( 10,066 ) Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 713 ( 351 ) 70 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 1,922 10,317 4,237 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD $ 21,856 $ 32,173 $ 36,410 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on long-term debt $ 328 $ 854 $ 875 Cash paid for operating leases — — 3,361 Cash paid for interest on finance leases 200 381 647 Cash paid for interest on financing obligations 119 194 39 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds 957 1,184 881 Assets acquired under operating leases — — 7,870 Property and equipment acquired under finance leases 9,637 10,615 13,723 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit arrangements 3,541 3,641 1,362 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 Net product sales $ 118,573 $ 141,915 $ 160,408 Net service sales 59,293 90,972 120,114 Total net sales 177,866 232,887 280,522 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 111,934 139,156 165,536 Fulfillment 25,249 34,027 40,232 Technology and content 22,620 28,837 35,931 Marketing 10,069 13,814 18,878 General and administrative 3,674 4,336 5,203 Other operating expense (income), net 214 296 201 Total operating expenses 173,760 220,466 265,981 Operating income 4,106 12,421 14,541 Interest income 202 440 832 Interest expense ( 848 ) ( 1,417 ) ( 1,600 ) Other income (expense), net 346 ( 183 ) 203 Total non-operating income (expense) ( 300 ) ( 1,160 ) ( 565 ) Income before income taxes 3,806 11,261 13,976 Provision for income taxes ( 769 ) ( 1,197 ) ( 2,374 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax ( 4 ) 9 ( 14 ) Net income $ 3,033 $ 10,073 $ 11,588 Basic earnings per share $ 6.32 $ 20.68 $ 23.46 Diluted earnings per share $ 6.15 $ 20.14 $ 23.01 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 480 487 494 Diluted 493 500 504 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 Net income $ 3,033 $ 10,073 $ 11,588 Other comprehensive income (loss): Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $5, $6, and $(5) 533 ( 538 ) 78 Reclassification adjustment for foreign currency translation included in “Other operating expense (income), net,” net of tax of $0, $0, and $29 — — ( 108 ) Net foreign currency translation adjustments 533 ( 538 ) ( 30 ) Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $5, $0, and $(12) ( 39 ) ( 17 ) 83 Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $0, $0, and $0 7 8 ( 4 ) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities ( 32 ) ( 9 ) 79 Total other comprehensive income (loss) 501 ( 547 ) 49 Comprehensive income $ 3,534 $ 9,526 $ 11,637 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2018 2019 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 31,750 $ 36,092 Marketable securities 9,500 18,929 Inventories 17,174 20,497 Accounts receivable, net and other 16,677 20,816 Total current assets 75,101 96,334 Property and equipment, net 61,797 72,705 Operating leases — 25,141 Goodwill 14,548 14,754 Other assets 11,202 16,314 Total assets $ 162,648 $ 225,248 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 38,192 $ 47,183 Accrued expenses and other 23,663 32,439 Unearned revenue 6,536 8,190 Total current liabilities 68,391 87,812 Long-term lease liabilities 9,650 39,791 Long-term debt 23,495 23,414 Other long-term liabilities 17,563 12,171 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 514 and 521 Outstanding shares — 491 and 498 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost ( 1,837 ) ( 1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 26,791 33,658 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( 1,035 ) ( 986 ) Retained earnings 19,625 31,220 Total stockholders’ equity 43,549 62,060 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 162,648 $ 225,248 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2017 477 $ 5 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 17,186 $ ( 985 ) $ 4,916 $ 19,285 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to stock-based compensation — — — — — 687 687 Net income — — — — — 3,033 3,033 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 501 — 501 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — 1 — — 1 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 4,202 — — 4,202 Balance as of December 31, 2017 484 5 ( 1,837 ) 21,389 ( 484 ) 8,636 27,709 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles related to revenue recognition, income taxes, and financial instruments — — — — ( 4 ) 916 912 Net income — — — — — 10,073 10,073 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( 547 ) — ( 547 ) Exercise of common stock options 7 — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 5,402 — — 5,402 Balance as of December 31, 2018 491 5 ( 1,837 ) 26,791 ( 1,035 ) 19,625 43,549 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to leases — — — — — 7 7 Net income — — — — — 11,588 11,588 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 49 — 49 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 6,867 — — 6,867 Balance as of December 31, 2019 498 $ 5 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 33,658 $ ( 986 ) $ 31,220 $ 62,060 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 — DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores and fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through our AWS segment, which offers a broad set of global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising to sellers, vendors, publishers, and authors, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 10 — Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the addition of restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the reclassification of long-term capital lease obligations that existed at December 31, 2018 from “Other long-term liabilities” to “Long-term lease liabilities” within the consolidated balance sheets, as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance. See “Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted.” Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc. and its consolidated entities (collectively, the “Company”), consisting of its wholly-owned subsidiaries and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and certain entities that support our seller lending financing activities. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, useful lives of equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, and inventory valuation. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. For example, in Q4 2019 we completed a useful life study for our servers and are increasing the useful life from three years to four years for servers in January 2020, which, based on servers that are included in “Property and equipment, net” as of December 31, 2019, will have an anticipated impact to our 2020 operating income of $ 2.3 billion . Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. 42 Table of Contents The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 480 487 494 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 13 13 10 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 493 500 504 Revenue Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin. A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including audiobooks, digital video, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. Other - Other revenue primarily includes sales of advertising services, which are recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $ 468 million , $ 623 million , and $ 712 million as of December 31, 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Additions to the allowance were $ 1.8 billion , $ 2.3 billion , and $ 2.5 billion and deductions from the allowance were $ 1.9 billion , $ 2.3 billion , and $ 2.5 billion in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Included in “Inventories” on our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $ 406 million , $ 519 million , and $ 629 million as of December 31, 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 , for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. 43 Table of Contents Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive funds primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred and were $ 6.3 billion , $ 8.2 billion , and $ 11.0 billion in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for corporate functions, including payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and professional fees and litigation costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience and employee level. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements. 44 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of adjustments to and gains on equity securities of $ 18 million , $ 145 million , and $ 231 million in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 , equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $ 109 million , $( 131 ) million , and $ 11 million in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 , and foreign currency gains (losses) of $ 247 million , $( 206 ) million , and $( 20 ) million in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject to U.S. taxation under the U.S. Tax Act, which also repeals U.S. taxation on the subsequent repatriation of those earnings. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 — Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and certain marketable equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . We hold equity warrants giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , these warrants had a fair value of $ 440 million and $ 669 million , and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. 45 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , customer receivables, net, were $ 9.4 billion and $ 12.6 billion , vendor receivables, net, were $ 3.2 billion and $ 4.2 billion , and seller receivables, net, were $ 710 million and $ 863 million . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ 348 million , $ 495 million , and $ 718 million as of December 31, 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Additions to the allowance were $ 626 million , $ 878 million , and $ 1.0 billion , and deductions to the allowance were $ 515 million , $ 731 million , and $ 793 million in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction in our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period and finance lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to seven years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation and amortization expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases We categorize leases with contractual terms longer than twelve months as either operating or finance. Finance leases are generally those leases that allow us to substantially utilize or pay for the entire asset over its estimated life. Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in property and equipment, net. All other leases are categorized as operating leases. Our leases generally have terms that range from one to ten years for equipment and one to twenty years for property. Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. For leases of property, we account for these other services as a component of the lease. For substantially all other leases, the services are accounted for separately and we allocate payments to the lease and other services components based on estimated stand-alone prices. 46 Table of Contents Lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives using a discount rate based on similarly secured borrowings available to us. Lease assets are recognized based on the initial present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases or lease prepayments reclassified from “Other assets” upon lease commencement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the lease term. When we have the option to extend the lease term, terminate the lease before the contractual expiration date, or purchase the leased asset, and it is reasonably certain that we will exercise the option, we consider these options in determining the classification and measurement of the lease. Our leases may include variable payments based on measures that include changes in price indices, market interest rates, or the level of sales at a physical store, which are expensed as incurred. Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized on a straight-line basis within operating expenses over the term of the lease. Finance lease assets are amortized within operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or, in the instance where title does not transfer at the end of the lease term, the lease term. The interest component of a finance lease is included in interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Financing Obligations We record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period. If we continue to control the building after the construction period, the arrangement is classified as a financing obligation instead of a lease. The building is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life or the term of the obligation. If we do not control the building after the construction period ends, the assets and liabilities for construction costs are derecognized, and we classify the lease as either operating or finance. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2019 , and determined that goodwill is no t impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual impairment test. See “Note 5 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; video and music content, net of accumulated amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; lease prepayments made prior to lease commencement; and equity warrant assets. Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific video or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We reduce the liability as payments are made and we 47 Table of Contents amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage or viewing patterns, or on a straight-line basis. If the licensing fee is not determinable or reasonably estimable, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing patterns associated with the content. The weighted average remaining life of our capitalized video content is 2.7 years . Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships. These film groups are evaluated for impairment whenever an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the fair value is less than the carrying value. The total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 were $ 3.8 billion and $ 5.8 billion . Total video and music expense was $ 6.7 billion and $ 7.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 . Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments and are classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets with adjustments recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, these investments had a carrying value of $ 282 million and $ 1.5 billion . Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statement of operations. We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments indicate impairment. For debt securities and equity-method investments, we also evaluate whether declines in fair value of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include: quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, including lease assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . 48 Table of Contents Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, customer liabilities, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $ 3.4 billion and $ 4.3 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $ 2.8 billion and $ 3.3 billion . We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2018 was $ 7.9 billion , of which $ 6.3 billion was recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2019 and our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2019 was $ 10.2 billion . Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $ 1.4 billion and $ 2.0 billion of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $ 29.8 billion as of December 31, 2019 . The weighted average remaining life of our long-term contracts is 3.3 years . However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. Other Long-Term Liabilities Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to deferred tax liabilities, financing obligations, asset retirement obligations, tax contingencies, and digital video and music content. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $ 202 million , $( 186 ) million , and $ 95 million in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We adopted this ASU on January 1, 2018 for all revenue contracts with our customers using the modified retrospective approach and increased retained earnings by approximately $ 650 million . The adjustment primarily relates to the unredeemed portion of our gift cards, which are now recognized over the expected customer usage period rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote. We changed the recognition and classification of Amazon Prime memberships, which are now accounted for as a single performance obligation and recognized ratably over the membership period as service sales. Previously, Prime memberships were considered to be arrangements with multiple deliverables and were allocated among product sales and service sales. Other changes relate primarily to the presentation of revenue. Certain advertising services are now classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales, and sales of apps, in-app content, and certain digital media content are presented on a net basis. Prior year amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policy. The impact of applying this ASU for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily resulted in a decrease in product sales and an increase in service sales driven by the reclassification of Prime membership fees of approximately $ 3.8 billion . Service sales also increased by approximately $ 3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 due to the reclassification of certain advertising services. 49 Table of Contents In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 with no material impact to our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases, primarily requiring the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than twelve months on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the new guidance, leases previously described as capital lease obligations and finance lease obligations are now referred to as finance leases and financing obligations, respectively. We adopted this ASU on January 1, 2019 by recording an immaterial cumulative adjustment to retained earnings rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. Prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies resulting in a balance sheet presentation that is not comparable to the prior period in the first year of adoption. The adoption of this ASU resulted in the recognition of operating lease assets and liabilities of approximately $ 21 billion , which included the reclassification of finance lease obligations to operating leases of $ 1.2 billion . As of December 31, 2018, amounts related to finance lease obligations and construction liabilities totaled $ 9.6 billion , of which $ 1.5 billion was derecognized for buildings that we do not control during the construction period and $ 5.4 billion and $ 1.5 billion were reclassified to finance leases and operating leases, respectively. In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 with an increase of approximately $ 250 million to retained earnings and deferred tax assets net of valuation allowances. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the consolidated statements of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be added to cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of cash flows. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2018 on a retrospective basis with the following impacts to our consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2017 Previously Reported Adjustments As Revised Operating activities $ 18,434 $ ( 69 ) $ 18,365 Investing activities ( 27,819 ) 735 ( 27,084 ) Financing activities 9,860 68 9,928 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 475 $ 734 $ 1,209 In March 2019, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for film costs, inclusive of episodic television and movie costs. The new guidance aligns the accounting for production costs of episodic television with that of movies by requiring production costs to be capitalized. Previously, we only capitalized a portion of the production costs related to our produced episodic television content. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2019 and began capitalizing substantially all of our production costs. Adoption of this ASU resulted in approximately $ 1.0 billion of incremental capitalized film costs classified in “Other Assets” as of December 31, 2019 . 50 Table of Contents Note 2 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Marketable Securities As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2018 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,406 $ — $ — $ 10,406 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 12,515 — — 12,515 Equity securities 170 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 815 — — 815 U.S. government and agency securities 11,686 1 ( 20 ) 11,667 Corporate debt securities 5,008 1 ( 19 ) 4,990 Asset-backed securities 896 — ( 4 ) 892 Other fixed income securities 190 — ( 2 ) 188 Equity securities 33 $ 41,516 $ 2 $ ( 45 ) $ 41,676 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 426 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 41,250 51 Table of Contents December 31, 2019 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 9,776 $ — $ — $ 9,776 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 18,850 — — 18,850 Equity securities (1) 202 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 4,794 — — 4,794 U.S. government and agency securities 7,070 11 ( 1 ) 7,080 Corporate debt securities 11,845 37 ( 1 ) 11,881 Asset-backed securities 2,355 6 ( 1 ) 2,360 Other fixed income securities 393 1 — 394 Equity securities (1) 5 $ 55,083 $ 55 $ ( 3 ) $ 55,342 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 321 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 55,021 ___________________ (1) The related unrealized gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $ 4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 . (2) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale fixed income marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 Realized gains $ 5 $ 2 $ 11 Realized losses 11 9 7 The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2019 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 35,064 $ 35,071 Due after one year through five years 9,262 9,304 Due after five years through ten years 301 302 Due after ten years 680 682 Total $ 45,307 $ 45,359 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 52 Table of Contents Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Reconciliation The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2019 Cash and cash equivalents $ 31,750 $ 36,092 Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other 418 276 Restricted cash included in other assets 5 42 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows $ 32,173 $ 36,410 Note 3 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2018 2019 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 31,741 $ 39,223 Equipment 54,591 71,310 Other assets 2,577 3,111 Construction in progress 6,861 6,036 Gross property and equipment 95,770 119,680 Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 33,973 46,975 Total property and equipment, net $ 61,797 $ 72,705 __________________ (1) Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $ 8.8 billion , $ 12.1 billion , and $ 15.1 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under finance leases of $ 5.4 billion , $ 7.3 billion , and $ 10.1 billion for 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Note 4 — LEASES Gross assets acquired under finance leases, inclusive of those where title transfers at the end of the lease, are recorded in “Property and equipment, net” and were $ 36.1 billion and $ 57.4 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $ 19.8 billion and $ 30.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . Lease cost recognized in our consolidated statements of operations is summarized as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 Operating lease cost (1) $ 3,669 Finance lease cost: Amortization of lease assets 10,094 Interest on lease liabilities 695 Finance lease cost 10,789 Variable lease cost 966 Total lease cost $ 15,424 __________________ (1) Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ 2.2 billion and $ 3.4 billion for 2017 and 2018 . 53 Table of Contents Other information about lease amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements is summarized as follows: December 31, 2019 Weighted-average remaining lease term – operating leases 11.5 Weighted-average remaining lease term – finance leases 5.5 Weighted-average discount rate – operating leases 3.1 % Weighted-average discount rate – finance leases 2.7 % As of December 31, 2019 , our lease liabilities were as follows (in millions): Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 31,963 $ 28,875 $ 60,838 Less: imputed interest ( 6,128 ) ( 1,896 ) ( 8,024 ) Present value of lease liabilities 25,835 26,979 52,814 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 3,139 ) ( 9,884 ) ( 13,023 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 22,696 $ 17,095 $ 39,791 Note 5 — ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2017 Acquisition Activity On May 12, 2017 , we acquired Souq Group Ltd., an e-commerce company, for approximately $ 583 million , net of cash acquired, and on August 28, 2017, we acquired Whole Foods Market, a grocery store chain, for approximately $ 13.2 billion , net of cash acquired. Both acquisitions are intended to expand our retail presence. During 2017 , we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 204 million . The primary reason for our other 2017 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. 2018 Acquisition Activity On April 12, 2018 , we acquired Ring Inc. (“Ring”) for cash consideration of approximately $ 839 million , net of cash acquired, and on September 11, 2018 , we acquired PillPack, Inc. (“PillPack”) for cash consideration of approximately $ 753 million , net of cash acquired, to expand our product and service offerings. During 2018 , we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 57 million . The primary reason for our other 2018 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. 2019 Acquisition Activity During 2019 , we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 315 million . The primary reason for these acquisitions, none of which were individually material to our consolidated financial statements, was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of 2019 acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 54 Table of Contents Purchase Price Allocation The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 2018 2019 Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $ 13,859 $ 1,618 $ 276 Indemnification holdback 104 31 39 $ 13,963 $ 1,649 $ 315 Allocation Goodwill $ 9,501 $ 1,228 $ 189 Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 1,987 186 8 Contract-based 440 13 — Technology-based 166 285 139 Customer-related 54 193 14 2,647 677 161 Property and equipment 3,810 11 3 Deferred tax assets 117 174 29 Other assets acquired 1,858 282 41 Long-term debt ( 1,165 ) ( 176 ) ( 31 ) Deferred tax liabilities ( 961 ) ( 159 ) ( 34 ) Other liabilities assumed ( 1,844 ) ( 388 ) ( 43 ) $ 13,963 $ 1,649 $ 315 ___________________ (1) Intangible assets acquired in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years , two and seven years , and two and seven years , with weighted-average amortization periods of twenty-one years , six years , and five years . We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2018 and 2019 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2018 $ 11,165 $ 1,108 $ 1,077 $ 13,350 New acquisitions (1) 1,031 177 20 1,228 Other adjustments (2) ( 5 ) ( 15 ) ( 10 ) ( 30 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2018 12,191 1,270 1,087 14,548 New acquisitions 71 29 89 189 Other adjustments (2) 2 1 14 17 Goodwill - December 31, 2019 $ 12,264 $ 1,300 $ 1,190 $ 14,754 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes the acquisitions of Ring and PillPack in the North America segment. (2) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. 55 Table of Contents Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2018 2019 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ 2,542 $ ( 431 ) $ 2,111 $ 2,303 $ ( 340 ) $ 1,963 20.7 Contract-based 1,430 ( 224 ) 1,206 1,702 ( 302 ) 1,400 10.5 Technology- and content-based 941 ( 377 ) 564 1,011 ( 477 ) 534 3.6 Customer-related 437 ( 208 ) 229 282 ( 130 ) 152 4.3 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 5,350 $ ( 1,240 ) $ 4,110 $ 5,298 $ ( 1,249 ) $ 4,049 14.3 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years . Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $ 366 million , $ 475 million , and $ 565 million in 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2019 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 $ 486 2021 424 2022 391 2023 334 2024 270 Thereafter 2,116 $ 4,021 56 Table of Contents Note 6 — DEBT As of December 31, 2019 , we had $ 23.3 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , the net unamortized discount and debt issuance costs on the Notes was $ 101 million . We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings under our credit facility, of $ 715 million and $ 1.6 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 2019 2.600% Notes due on December 5, 2019 1,000 — 1.900% Notes due on August 21, 2020 (3) 1,000 1,000 3.300% Notes due on December 5, 2021 (2) 1,000 1,000 2.500% Notes due on November 29, 2022 (1) 1,250 1,250 2.400% Notes due on February 22, 2023 (3) 1,000 1,000 2.800% Notes due on August 22, 2024 (3) 2,000 2,000 3.800% Notes due on December 5, 2024 (2) 1,250 1,250 5.200% Notes due on December 3, 2025 (4) 1,000 1,000 3.150% Notes due on August 22, 2027 (3) 3,500 3,500 4.800% Notes due on December 5, 2034 (2) 1,250 1,250 3.875% Notes due on August 22, 2037 (3) 2,750 2,750 4.950% Notes due on December 5, 2044 (2) 1,500 1,500 4.050% Notes due on August 22, 2047 (3) 3,500 3,500 4.250% Notes due on August 22, 2057 (3) 2,250 2,250 Credit Facility 594 740 Other long-term debt 121 830 Total debt 24,965 24,820 Less current portion of long-term debt ( 1,371 ) ( 1,307 ) Face value of long-term debt $ 23,594 $ 23,513 _____________________________ (1) Issued in November 2012, effective interest rate of the 2022 Notes was 2.66 % . (2) Issued in December 2014, effective interest rates of the 2021, 2024, 2034, and 2044 Notes were 3.43 % , 3.90 % , 4.92 % , and 5.11 % . (3) Issued in August 2017, effective interest rates of the 2020, 2023, 2024, 2027, 2037, 2047, and 2057 Notes were 2.16 % , 2.56 % , 2.95 % , 3.25 % , 3.94 % , 4.13 % , and 4.33 % . (4) Consists of $ 872 million of 2025 Notes issued in December 2017 in exchange for notes assumed in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market and $ 128 million of 2025 Notes issued by Whole Foods Market that did not participate in our December 2017 exchange offer. The effective interest rate of the 2025 Notes was 3.02 % . Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November . Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December . Interest on the Notes issued in 2017 is payable semi-annually in arrears in February and August. Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the November 2012 and the December 2014 Notes were used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the August 2017 Notes were used to fund the consideration for the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, to repay notes due in 2017, and for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $ 24.3 billion and $ 26.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates. In October 2016, we entered into a $ 500 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables , which we subsequently increased to $ 740 million and may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is available until October 2022, bears interest at the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus 1.40 % , and has a commitment fee of 0.50 % on the undrawn portion. There were $ 594 million and $ 740 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , which had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.2 % and 3.4 % as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , we 57 Table of Contents have pledged $ 686 million and $ 852 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 6.0 % and 4.1 % as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . As of December 31, 2019 , future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 $ 1,307 2021 1,141 2022 1,773 2023 1,510 2024 3,339 Thereafter 15,750 $ 24,820 In April 2018, we established a commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $ 7.0 billion at any time, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . In April 2018, in connection with our Commercial Paper Program, we amended and restated our unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders to increase our borrowing capacity thereunder to $ 7.0 billion . As amended and restated, the Credit Agreement has a term of three years , but it may be extended for up to three additional one -year terms if approved by the lenders. The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the amended and restated Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.50 % , with a commitment fee of 0.04 % on the undrawn portion of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 . 58 Table of Contents Note 7 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating and finance leases and financing obligations for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2019 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ 2,202 $ 2,009 $ 2,603 $ 2,273 $ 4,084 $ 26,019 $ 39,190 Operating lease liabilities 3,757 3,630 3,226 2,900 2,605 15,845 31,963 Finance lease liabilities, including interest 9,878 7,655 4,060 1,332 989 4,961 28,875 Financing obligations, including interest 142 146 148 150 152 2,452 3,190 Unconditional purchase obligations (1) 4,593 3,641 3,293 3,103 3,000 2,358 19,988 Other commitments (2)(3) 3,837 2,274 1,770 1,439 1,389 12,186 22,895 Total commitments $ 24,409 $ 19,355 $ 15,100 $ 11,197 $ 12,219 $ 63,821 $ 146,101 ___________________ (1) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements and lease arrangements prior to the lease commencement date and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. (3) Excludes approximately $ 3.9 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2018 and 2019 , we have pledged or otherwise restricted $ 575 million and $ 994 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. Additionally, we have pledged our cash and seller receivables for debt related to our Credit Facility. See “Note 6 — Debt.” Suppliers During 2019 , no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Other Contingencies In 2016, we determined that we processed and delivered orders of consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act or other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review is ongoing and we have voluntarily reported these orders to the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. We intend to cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS with respect to their review, which may result in the imposition of penalties. For additional information, see 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our stores to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring, and other devices, and we develop and produce media content. We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on over 100 million items, access to unlimited streaming of tens of thousands of movies and TV episodes, including Amazon Original content, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in the risk factors below, additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic and the global economic climate may give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. Business and Industry Risks We Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors across geographies, including cross-border competition, and in different industries, including physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, e-commerce services, web and infrastructure computing services, electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, and transportation and logistics services. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors, and as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us. As a result of competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or services could result in the value of those investments being written down or written off. Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation (such as regulation of our product and service offerings and of competition); restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); nationalization; and restrictions on foreign ownership; • restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights; 6 Table of Contents • business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, data security, network security, consumer protection, payments, advertising, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; • lower levels of use of the Internet; • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.; • lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; • different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties; • laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. The inability to hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may limit our international growth. The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the Internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) Internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services. For example, in order to meet local ownership, regulatory licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, we provide certain technology services in China through contractual relationships with third parties that hold PRC licenses to provide services. In India, the government restricts the ownership or control of Indian companies by foreign entities involved in online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to third-party sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold indirect minority interests in entities that are third-party sellers on the www.amazon.in marketplace. Although we believe these structures and activities comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India may from time to time consider and implement additional changes in their regulatory, licensing, or other requirements that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and it is possible that these governments will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or, in China, enforce contractual relationships we or our affiliates have in place. Violation of any existing or future PRC, Indian, or other laws or regulations or changes in the interpretations of those laws and regulations could result in our businesses in those countries being subject to fines and other financial penalties, having licenses revoked, or being forced to restructure our operations or shut down entirely. 7 Table of Contents The Variability in Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including as a result of seasonality, promotions, product launches, or unforeseeable events, such as in response to natural or man-made disasters, extreme weather, or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur during our fourth quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce profitability. We regularly experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere in this   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington and Arlington, Virginia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings.” 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 (1) 2018 2019 2020 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 135,987 $ 177,866 $ 232,887 $ 280,522 $ 386,064 Operating income $ 4,186 $ 4,106 $ 12,421 $ 14,541 $ 22,899 Net income (loss) $ 2,371 $ 3,033 $ 10,073 $ 11,588 $ 21,331 Basic earnings per share (2) $ 5.01 $ 6.32 $ 20.68 $ 23.46 $ 42.64 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ 4.90 $ 6.15 $ 20.14 $ 23.01 $ 41.83 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 474 480 487 494 500 Diluted 484 493 500 504 510 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (3) $ 17,203 $ 18,365 $ 30,723 $ 38,514 $ 66,064 December 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 (4) 2020 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 83,402 $ 131,310 $ 162,648 $ 225,248 $ 321,195 Total long-term obligations $ 20,301 $ 45,718 $ 50,708 $ 75,376 $ 101,406 ___________________ (1) We acquired Whole Foods Market on August 28, 2017. The results of Whole Foods Market have been included in our results of operation from the date of acquisition. (2) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures” (3) As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to add restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents, which restated cash provided by operating activities by $(69) million in 2016 and 2017. (4) As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance on January 1, 2019, we recognized lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than twelve months. Prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. 18 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, variability in demand, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the global economic climate and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic amplify many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Effects of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting global disruptions have affected our businesses, as well as those of our customers, suppliers, and third-party sellers. To serve our customers while also providing for the safety of our employees and service providers, we have modified numerous aspects of our logistics, transportation, supply chain, purchasing, and third-party seller processes. Beginning in Q1 2020, we made numerous process updates across our operations worldwide, and adapted our fulfillment network, to implement employee and customer safety measures, such as enhanced cleaning and physical distancing, personal protective gear, disinfectant spraying, and temperature checks. Since February 2020, we have hired over 400,000 full-time and part-time employees to increase our fulfillment network capacity. We incurred approximately $4.0 billion in COVID-19 related costs in Q4 2020, for a total of more than $11.5 billion during 2020. We will continue to prioritize employee and customer safety and comply with evolving federal, state, and local standards as well as to implement standards or processes that we determine to be in the best interests of our employees, customers, and communities. 20 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2020, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $270 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to change due to economic, political, and other conditions, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use our deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 38,514 $ 66,064 Investing activities (24,281) (59,611) Financing activities (10,066) (1,104) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $55.0 billion and $84.4 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $15.3 billion and $23.5 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $38.5 billion and $66.1 billion in 2019 and 2020. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow in 2020, compared to the prior year, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses, and changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(24.3) billion and $(59.6) billion in 2019 and 2020, with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $12.7 billion, and $35.0 billion in 2019 and 2020, which primarily reflect investments in additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), which investments we expect to continue over time. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion in 2019 and 2020. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(10.1) billion and $(1.1) billion in 2019 and 2020. Cash inflows from financing activities resulted from proceeds of short-term debt, and other and long-term-debt of $2.3 billion and $17.3 billion in 2019 and 2020. Cash outflows from financing activities resulted from payments of short-term debt, and other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $12.3 billion and $18.4 billion in 2019 and 2020. Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $13.7 billion and $11.6 billion in 2019 and 2020, reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS. We had no borrowings outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”), $725 million of borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”), and $338 million of borrowings outstanding under our secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of December 31, 2020. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. As of December 31, 2020, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $17.2 billion. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income, and all remaining federal tax credits, which were primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, reduced our federal tax liability in 2020. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included the election of full expensing of qualified property for 2018 and 2019 and a partial election for 2020. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $881 million and $1.7 billion for 2019 and 2020. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with the European Commission’s October 2017 decision against us on state aid, Luxembourg tax authorities computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the 22 Table of Contents European Commission’s decision, of approximately €250 million, that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $321 million and $257 million. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $26.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Effects of COVID-19 As reflected in the discussion below, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken in response to it had varying effects on our 2020 results of operations. Higher net sales in the North America and International segments reflect increased demand, particularly as people are staying at home, including for household staples and other essential and home products, partially offset by fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints. Other effects in the North America and International segments include increased fulfillment costs and cost of sales as a percentage of net sales, primarily due to the impact of lower productivity, increased employee hiring and benefits, and costs to maintain safe workplaces. We expect the effects of fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints, elevated collection risk in our accounts receivable, and increased fulfillment costs and cost of sales as a percentage of net sales to continue into all or portions of Q1 2021. However, it is not possible to determine the duration and scope of the pandemic, including any recurrence, the actions taken in response to the pandemic, the scale and rate of economic recovery from the pandemic, any ongoing effects on consumer demand and spending patterns, or other impacts of the pandemic, and whether these or other currently unanticipated consequences of the pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Net Sales: North America $ 170,773 $ 236,282 International 74,723 104,412 AWS 35,026 45,370 Consolidated $ 280,522 $ 386,064 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 21 % 38 % International 13 40 AWS 37 30 Consolidated 20 38 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 21 % 38 % International 17 38 AWS 37 30 Consolidated 22 37 Net sales mix: North America 61 % 61 % International 27 27 AWS 12 12 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 38% in 2020, compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $(2.6) billion and $1.4 billion for 2019 and 2020. For a discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 38% in 2020, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, and increased demand, including for household staples and other essential and home products, partially offset by fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints. International sales increased 40% in 2020, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, and increased demand, including for household staples and other essential and home products, partially offset by fulfillment network capacity and supply chain constraints. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(2.4) billion and $1.7 billion in 2019 and 2020. AWS sales increased 30% in 2020, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. 25 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 7,033 $ 8,651 International (1,693) 717 AWS 9,201 13,531 Consolidated $ 14,541 $ 22,899 Operating income was $14.5 billion and $22.9 billion for 2019 and 2020. We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The increase in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased shipping and fulfillment costs due in part to COVID-19. We expect North America operating income to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q1 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $23 million and $8 million for 2019 and 2020. The International operating income in 2020, as compared to the operating loss in the prior year, is primarily due to increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales, and slower growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased shipping and fulfillment costs due in part to COVID-19. We expect International operating income to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q1 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income (loss) by $(116) million and $411 million for 2019 and 2020. The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, including a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful life of our servers, partially offset by increased payroll and related expenses and spending on technology infrastructure, both of which were primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth, and reduced prices for our customers. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $273 million and $30 million for 2019 and 2020. 26 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 165,536 $ 233,307 Fulfillment 40,232 58,517 Technology and content 35,931 42,740 Marketing 18,878 22,008 General and administrative 5,203 6,668 Other operating expense (income), net 201 (75) Total operating expenses $ 265,981 $ 363,165 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 19 % 41 % Fulfillment 18 45 Technology and content 25 19 Marketing 37 17 General and administrative 20 28 Other operating expense (income), net (32) (137) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 59.0 % 60.4 % Fulfillment 14.3 15.2 Technology and content 12.8 11.1 Marketing 6.7 5.7 General and administrative 1.9 1.7 Other operating expense (income), net 0.1 — Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. We expect cost of sales as a percentage of net sales to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q1 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $37.9 billion and $61.1 billion in 2019 and 2020. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. 27 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in “Fulfillment,” AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing and related transaction costs as a percentage of net sales compared to our retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, costs from expanding our fulfillment network, and the COVID-19 related impact of lower productivity, increased employee hiring and benefits, and costs to maintain safe workplaces. We expect fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales to continue to be negatively impacted through at least Q1 2021 by COVID-19 related costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings and an increase in spending on technology infrastructure, offset by a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful life of our servers. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures — Use of Estimates” for additional information on our change in estimated useful life of our servers. Marketing Marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, third party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, partially offset by lower spending on marketing channels as a result of COVID-19. While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. 28 Table of Contents General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2020, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $201 million and $(75) million during 2019 and 2020, and was primarily related to a benefit from accelerated vesting of warrants to acquire equity of a vendor in Q4 2020, offset by a lease impairment in Q2 2020 and the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $832 million and $555 million during 2019 and 2020. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $1.6 billion in 2019 and 2020 and was primarily related to debt and finance leases. Our long-term lease liabilities were $39.8 billion and $52.6 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Our long-term debt was $23.4 billion and $31.8 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $203 million and $2.4 billion during 2019 and 2020. The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity warrant valuations, equity securities valuations and adjustments, and foreign currency. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in relevant jurisdictions, and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business make estimates of future income more challenging. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $2.4 billion and $2.9 billion in 2019 and 2020. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. 29 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives.” The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2019 and 2020 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 38,514 $ 66,064 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (12,689) (35,044) Free cash flow $ 25,825 $ 31,020 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (24,281) $ (59,611) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (10,066) $ (1,104) Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance leases” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” Principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2019 and 2020 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 38,514 $ 66,064 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (12,689) (35,044) Free cash flow 25,825 31,020 Principal repayments of finance leases (9,628) (10,642) Principal repayments of financing obligations (27) (53) Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ 16,170 $ 20,325 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (24,281) $ (59,611) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (10,066) $ (1,104) 30 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases,” principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities, which is included in “Principal repayments of finance leases,” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2019 and 2020 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 38,514 $ 66,064 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (12,689) (35,044) Free cash flow 25,825 31,020 Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (12,916) (9,104) Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) (392) (427) Principal repayments of financing obligations (27) (53) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations $ 12,490 $ 21,436 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (24,281) $ (59,611) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (10,066) $ (1,104) ___________________ (1) For the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, this amount relates to equipment included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases” of $13,723 million and $11,588 million. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, this amount relates to property included in “Principal repayments of finance leases” of $9,628 million and $10,642 million. All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 31 Table of Contents Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year periods. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 Year Ended December 31, 2020 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 280,522 $ 2,560 $ 283,082 $ 386,064 $ (1,438) $ 384,626 Operating expenses 265,981 2,740 268,721 363,165 (989) 362,176 Operating income 14,541 (180) 14,361 22,899 (449) 22,450 ___ ________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. Guidance We provided guidance on February 2, 2021, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of February 2, 2021, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2020 (in millions, except percentages): 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2020 Money market funds $ 27,430 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 27,430 $ 27,430 Weighted average interest rate (0.16) % — % — % — % — % — % (0.16) % Corporate debt securities 16,505 4,459 5,531 1,990 886 — 29,371 29,988 Weighted average interest rate 0.42 % 1.65 % 1.32 % 1.86 % 1.84 % 0.92 % U.S. government and agency securities 5,439 587 899 298 67 71 7,361 7,439 Weighted average interest rate 0.30 % 1.38 % 1.12 % 1.74 % 1.13 % 2.97 % 0.58 % Asset-backed securities 870 773 472 763 243 46 3,167 3,235 Weighted average interest rate 2.08 % 2.00 % 1.53 % 2.13 % 1.57 % 1.25 % 1.94 % Foreign government and agency securities 4,932 147 45 3 — — 5,127 5,131 Weighted average interest rate 0.25 % 0.74 % 1.28 % 1.76 % — % — % 0.28 % Other fixed income securities 109 156 230 160 43 — 698 710 Weighted average interest rate 2.10 % 1.85 % 1.10 % 0.84 % 1.31 % — % 1.38 % $ 55,285 $ 6,122 $ 7,177 $ 3,214 $ 1,239 $ 117 $ 73,154 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities $ 73,933 As of December 31, 2020, we had long-term debt with a face value of $33.2 billion, including the current portion, primarily consisting of fixed rate unsecured senior notes. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Foreign Exchange Risk During 2020, net sales from our International segment accounted for 27% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales increased by $1.7 billion in comparison with the prior year. 33 Table of Contents We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2020, of $23.5 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $1.2 billion, $2.4 billion, and $4.7 billion. Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2020, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in losses of $245 million, $485 million, and $970 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Equity Investment Risk As of December 31, 2020, our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $6.9 billion. Our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies represent $3.2 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2020, and are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. We assess our equity investments in private companies for impairment. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 34 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 36 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 38 Consolidated Statements of Operations 39 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 40 Consolidated Balance Sheets 41 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 42 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43 35 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 2, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. Uncertain Tax Positions Description of the Matter The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions and, as discussed in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements, during the ordinary course of business, there are many tax positions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The Company uses significant judgment in (1) determining whether a tax position’s technical merits are more likely than not to be sustained and (2) measuring the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. As of December 31, 2020, the Company accrued liabilities of $2.8 billion for various tax contingencies. Auditing the measurement of the Company’s tax contingencies was challenging because the evaluation of whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained and the measurement of the benefit of various tax positions can be complex, involves significant judgment, and is based on interpretations of tax laws and legal rulings. 36 Table of Contents How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit We tested controls over the Company’s process to assess the technical merits of its tax contingencies, including controls over the assessment as to whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, management’s process to measure the benefit of its tax positions, and the development of the related disclosures. We involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and research and development tax professionals in assessing the technical merits of certain of the Company’s tax positions. Depending on the nature of the specific tax position and, as applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the Company’s analysis including the Company’s correspondence with such tax authorities and evaluating the underlying facts upon which the tax positions are based. We used our knowledge of, and experience with, international, transfer pricing, and other income tax laws by the relevant income tax authorities to evaluate the Company’s accounting for its tax contingencies. We evaluated developments in the applicable regulatory environments to assess potential effects on the Company’s positions, including recent decisions in relevant court cases. We analyzed the Company’s assumptions and data used to determine the amount of tax benefits to recognize and tested the accuracy of the Company’s calculations. We have also evaluated the Company’s income tax disclosures included in Note 9 in relation to these matters. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1996. Seattle, Washington February 2, 2021 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 21,856 $ 32,173 $ 36,410 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 10,073 11,588 21,331 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized content costs, operating lease assets, and other 15,341 21,789 25,251 Stock-based compensation 5,418 6,864 9,208 Other operating expense (income), net 274 164 ( 71 ) Other expense (income), net 219 ( 249 ) ( 2,582 ) Deferred income taxes 441 796 ( 554 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( 1,314 ) ( 3,278 ) ( 2,849 ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( 4,615 ) ( 7,681 ) ( 8,169 ) Accounts payable 3,263 8,193 17,480 Accrued expenses and other 472 ( 1,383 ) 5,754 Unearned revenue 1,151 1,711 1,265 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 30,723 38,514 66,064 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment ( 13,427 ) ( 16,861 ) ( 40,140 ) Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives 2,104 4,172 5,096 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other ( 2,186 ) ( 2,461 ) ( 2,325 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 8,240 22,681 50,237 Purchases of marketable securities ( 7,100 ) ( 31,812 ) ( 72,479 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ( 12,369 ) ( 24,281 ) ( 59,611 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from short-term debt, and other 886 1,402 6,796 Repayments of short-term debt, and other ( 813 ) ( 1,518 ) ( 6,177 ) Proceeds from long-term debt 182 871 10,525 Repayments of long-term debt ( 155 ) ( 1,166 ) ( 1,553 ) Principal repayments of finance leases ( 7,449 ) ( 9,628 ) ( 10,642 ) Principal repayments of financing obligations ( 337 ) ( 27 ) ( 53 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ( 7,686 ) ( 10,066 ) ( 1,104 ) Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash ( 351 ) 70 618 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 10,317 4,237 5,967 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD $ 32,173 $ 36,410 $ 42,377 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Net product sales $ 141,915 $ 160,408 $ 215,915 Net service sales 90,972 120,114 170,149 Total net sales 232,887 280,522 386,064 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 139,156 165,536 233,307 Fulfillment 34,027 40,232 58,517 Technology and content 28,837 35,931 42,740 Marketing 13,814 18,878 22,008 General and administrative 4,336 5,203 6,668 Other operating expense (income), net 296 201 ( 75 ) Total operating expenses 220,466 265,981 363,165 Operating income 12,421 14,541 22,899 Interest income 440 832 555 Interest expense ( 1,417 ) ( 1,600 ) ( 1,647 ) Other income (expense), net ( 183 ) 203 2,371 Total non-operating income (expense) ( 1,160 ) ( 565 ) 1,279 Income before income taxes 11,261 13,976 24,178 Provision for income taxes ( 1,197 ) ( 2,374 ) ( 2,863 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 9 ( 14 ) 16 Net income $ 10,073 $ 11,588 $ 21,331 Basic earnings per share $ 20.68 $ 23.46 $ 42.64 Diluted earnings per share $ 20.14 $ 23.01 $ 41.83 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 487 494 500 Diluted 500 504 510 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Net income $ 10,073 $ 11,588 $ 21,331 Other comprehensive income (loss): Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $ 6 , $( 5 ), and $( 36 ) ( 538 ) 78 561 Reclassification adjustment for foreign currency translation included in “Other operating expense (income), net,” net of tax of $ 0 , $ 29 , and $ 0 — ( 108 ) — Net foreign currency translation adjustments ( 538 ) ( 30 ) 561 Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $ 0 , $( 12 ), and $( 83 ) ( 17 ) 83 273 Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $ 0 , $ 0 , and $ 8 8 ( 4 ) ( 28 ) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities ( 9 ) 79 245 Total other comprehensive income (loss) ( 547 ) 49 806 Comprehensive income $ 9,526 $ 11,637 $ 22,137 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2019 2020 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 36,092 $ 42,122 Marketable securities 18,929 42,274 Inventories 20,497 23,795 Accounts receivable, net and other 20,816 24,542 Total current assets 96,334 132,733 Property and equipment, net 72,705 113,114 Operating leases 25,141 37,553 Goodwill 14,754 15,017 Other assets 16,314 22,778 Total assets $ 225,248 $ 321,195 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 47,183 $ 72,539 Accrued expenses and other 32,439 44,138 Unearned revenue 8,190 9,708 Total current liabilities 87,812 126,385 Long-term lease liabilities 39,791 52,573 Long-term debt 23,414 31,816 Other long-term liabilities 12,171 17,017 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $ 0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $ 0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 521 and 527 Outstanding shares — 498 and 503 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost ( 1,837 ) ( 1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 33,658 42,865 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( 986 ) ( 180 ) Retained earnings 31,220 52,551 Total stockholders’ equity 62,060 93,404 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 225,248 $ 321,195 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2018 484 $ 5 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 21,389 $ ( 484 ) $ 8,636 $ 27,709 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles related to revenue recognition, income taxes, and financial instruments — — — — ( 4 ) 916 912 Net income — — — — — 10,073 10,073 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( 547 ) — ( 547 ) Exercise of common stock options 7 — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 5,402 — — 5,402 Balance as of December 31, 2018 491 5 ( 1,837 ) 26,791 ( 1,035 ) 19,625 43,549 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to leases — — — — — 7 7 Net income — — — — — 11,588 11,588 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 49 — 49 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 6,867 — — 6,867 Balance as of December 31, 2019 498 5 ( 1,837 ) 33,658 ( 986 ) 31,220 62,060 Net income — — — — — 21,331 21,331 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 806 — 806 Exercise of common stock options 5 — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 9,207 — — 9,207 Balance as of December 31, 2020 503 $ 5 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 42,865 $ ( 180 ) $ 52,551 $ 93,404 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 42 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 — DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS, ACCOUNTING POLICIES, AND SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES Description of Business We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 10 — Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. “Proceeds from short-term debt, and other” were reclassified from “Proceeds from long-term debt and other” and “Repayments of short-term debt, and other” were reclassified from “Repayments of long-term debt and other” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc. and its consolidated entities (collectively, the “Company”), consisting of its wholly-owned subsidiaries and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and certain entities that support our seller lending financing activities. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, useful lives of equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, inventory valuation, collectability of receivables, and valuation and impairment of investments. Given the global economic climate and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic, these estimates have become more challenging, and actual results could differ materially from these estimates. We review the useful lives of equipment on an ongoing basis, and effective January 1, 2020 we changed our estimate of the useful life for our servers from three years to four years . The longer useful life is due to continuous improvements in our hardware, software, and data center designs. The effect of this change in estimate for the year ended December 31, 2020, based on servers that were included in “Property and equipment, net” as of December 31, 2019 and those acquired during the year ended December 31, 2020, was a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense of $ 2.7 billion and an increase in net income of $ 2.0 billion, or $ 4.06 per basic share and $ 3.98 per diluted share. 43 Table of Contents Supplemental Cash Flow Information The following table shows supplemental cash flow information (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on debt $ 854 $ 875 $ 916 Cash paid for operating leases $ — $ 3,361 $ 4,475 Cash paid for interest on finance leases $ 381 $ 647 $ 612 Cash paid for interest on financing obligations $ 194 $ 39 $ 102 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds $ 1,184 $ 881 $ 1,713 Assets acquired under operating leases $ — $ 7,870 $ 16,217 Property and equipment acquired under finance leases $ 10,615 $ 13,723 $ 11,588 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit arrangements $ 3,641 $ 1,362 $ 2,267 Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 487 494 500 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 13 10 10 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 500 504 510 Revenue Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin. A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. 44 Table of Contents Other - Other revenue primarily includes sales of advertising services, which are recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $ 623 million, $ 712 million, and $ 859 million as of December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020. Additions to the allowance were $ 2.3 billion, $ 2.5 billion, and $ 3.5 billion and deductions from the allowance were $ 2.3 billion, $ 2.5 billion, and $ 3.6 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020. Included in “Inventories” on our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $ 519 million, $ 629 million, and $ 852 million as of December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive consideration primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred and were $ 8.2 billion, $ 11.0 billion, and $ 10.9 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020. 45 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for corporate functions, including payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and professional fees and litigation costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all equity-classified stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience and employee level. Additionally, stock-based compensation includes stock appreciation rights that are expected to settle in cash. These liability-classified awards are remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement or expiration. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of a benefit from accelerated vesting of warrants to acquire equity of a vendor in Q4 2020, offset by a lease impairment in Q2 2020 and the amortization of intangible assets. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of valuations and adjustments of equity securities of $ 145 million, $ 231 million, and $ 833 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020, equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $( 131 ) million, $ 11 million, and $ 1.5 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020, and foreign currency gains (losses) of $( 206 ) million, $( 20 ) million, and $ 35 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020. During the period from January 1, 2021 to February 2, 2021, we expect to record upward adjustments relating to equity investments in private companies of approximately $ 1.5 billion. In addition, for this same period, our equity and equity warrant investments in public companies, which are subject to volatility based on changes in market prices, have experienced gains of approximately $ 1.5 billion based on available trading prices. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business make estimates of future earnings in relevant jurisdictions more challenging. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. 46 Table of Contents Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 — Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds and certain marketable equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold significant amounts of marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. We hold equity warrants giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, these warrants had a fair value of $ 669 million and $ 3.0 billion, and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets with gains and losses recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. These warrants are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. The inventory valuation allowance, representing a write-down of inventory, was $ 1.6 billion and $ 2.3 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, customer receivables, net, were $ 12.6 billion and $ 14.8 billion, vendor receivables, net, were $ 4.2 billion and $ 4.8 billion, and seller receivables, net, were $ 863 million and $ 381 million. Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on expected losses, including our historical experience of actual losses. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ 495 million, $ 718 million, and $ 1.1 billion as of December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020. Additions to the allowance were $ 878 million, $ 1.0 billion, and $ 1.4 billion, and deductions to the allowance were $ 731 million, $ 793 million, and $ 1.0 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020. 47 Table of Contents Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction to our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period and finance lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, three years prior to January 1, 2020 and four years subsequent to January 1, 2020 for our servers, five years for networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to ten years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation and amortization expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases We categorize leases with contractual terms longer than twelve months as either operating or finance. Finance leases are generally those leases that allow us to substantially utilize or pay for the entire asset over its estimated life. Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in “Property and equipment, net.” All other leases are categorized as operating leases. Our leases generally have terms that range from one to ten years for equipment and one to twenty years for property. Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. For leases of property, we account for these other services as a component of the lease. For substantially all other leases, the services are accounted for separately and we allocate payments to the lease and other services components based on estimated stand-alone prices. Lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives using a discount rate based on similarly secured borrowings available to us. Lease assets are recognized based on the initial present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases or lease prepayments reclassified from “Other assets” upon lease commencement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the lease term. When we have the option to extend the lease term, terminate the lease before the contractual expiration date, or purchase the leased asset, and it is reasonably certain that we will exercise the option, we consider the option in determining the classification and measurement of the lease. Our leases may include variable payments based on measures that include changes in price indices, market interest rates, or the level of sales at a physical store, which are expensed as incurred. Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized on a straight-line basis within operating expenses over the term of the lease. Finance lease assets are amortized within operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or, in the instance where title does not transfer at the end of the lease term, the lease term. The interest component of a finance lease is included in interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are amortized over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Financing Obligations We record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period. If we continue to control the building after the construction period, the arrangement is classified as a financing obligation instead of a lease. The building is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life or the term of the obligation. If we do not control the building after the construction period ends, the assets and liabilities for construction costs are derecognized, and we classify the lease as either operating or finance. 48 Table of Contents Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value and if so, we perform a quantitative test. We compare the carrying value of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset to its estimated fair value and if the fair value is determined to be less than the carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss for the difference. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual impairment test of goodwill for all reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of April 1, 2020, resulting in no impairments. The fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual impairment test. See “Note 5 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to video and music content, net of accumulated amortization; acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; certain equity investments; equity warrant assets; long-term deferred tax assets; and lease prepayments made prior to lease commencement. Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific video or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We reduce the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage or viewing patterns, or on a straight-line basis. If the licensing fee is not determinable or reasonably estimable, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing patterns associated with the content. The weighted average remaining life of our capitalized video content is 2.5 years. Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships. These film groups are evaluated for impairment whenever an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the fair value is less than the carrying value. The total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 were $ 5.8 billion and $ 6.8 billion. Total video and music expense was $ 7.8 billion and $ 11.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2020. Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are due to expected credit losses, as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Expected credit losses are recorded as an allowance through “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments in private companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, and are classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets with adjustments recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we perform a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether the investment is impaired. Our assessment includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. If the investment is impaired, we write it down to its estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, these investments had a carrying value of $ 1.5 billion and $ 2.7 billion. 49 Table of Contents Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, related gains or losses, and impairments, if any, are recognized in “Equity - method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are other-than-temporary and if so, we write down the investment to its estimated fair value. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, including lease assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations, payroll and related expenses, tax-related liabilities, unredeemed gift cards, customer liabilities, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $ 4.3 billion and $ 7.6 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $ 3.3 billion and $ 4.7 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2019 was $ 10.2 billion, of which $ 7.9 billion was recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2020 and our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2020 was $ 11.6 billion. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $ 2.0 billion and $ 1.9 billion of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $ 50.0 billion as of December 31, 2020. The weighted average remaining life of our long-term contracts is 3.4 years. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. Other Long-Term Liabilities Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to financing obligations, asset retirement obligations, deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, tax contingencies, and digital video and music content. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates 50 Table of Contents prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $( 186 ) million, $ 95 million, and $ 118 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020. Note 2 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Marketable Securities As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2019 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 9,776 $ — $ — $ 9,776 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 18,850 — — 18,850 Equity securities 202 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 4,794 — — 4,794 U.S. government and agency securities 7,070 11 ( 1 ) 7,080 Corporate debt securities 11,845 37 ( 1 ) 11,881 Asset-backed securities 2,355 6 ( 1 ) 2,360 Other fixed income securities 393 1 — 394 Equity securities 5 $ 55,083 $ 55 $ ( 3 ) $ 55,342 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 321 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 55,021 51 Table of Contents December 31, 2020 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,063 $ — $ — $ 10,063 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 27,430 — — 27,430 Equity securities (1) 617 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 5,130 1 — 5,131 U.S. government and agency securities 7,410 30 ( 1 ) 7,439 Corporate debt securities 29,684 305 ( 1 ) 29,988 Asset-backed securities 3,206 32 ( 3 ) 3,235 Other fixed income securities 701 9 — 710 Equity securities (1) 40 $ 83,624 $ 377 $ ( 5 ) $ 84,653 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 257 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 84,396 ___________________ (1) The related unrealized gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $ 448 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. (2) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale fixed income marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Realized gains $ 2 $ 11 $ 92 Realized losses 9 7 56 The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 52,838 $ 52,850 Due after one year through five years 17,222 17,546 Due after five years through ten years 857 863 Due after ten years 2,644 2,674 Total $ 73,561 $ 73,933 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 52 Table of Contents Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Reconciliation The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 Cash and cash equivalents $ 36,092 $ 42,122 Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other 276 233 Restricted cash included in other assets 42 22 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows $ 36,410 $ 42,377 Note 3 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2019 2020 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 39,223 $ 57,324 Equipment 71,310 97,224 Other assets 3,111 3,772 Construction in progress 6,036 15,228 Gross property and equipment 119,680 173,548 Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 46,975 60,434 Total property and equipment, net $ 72,705 $ 113,114 __________________ (1) Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $ 12.1 billion, $ 15.1 billion, and $ 16.2 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under finance leases of $ 7.3 billion, $ 10.1 billion, and $ 8.5 billion for 2018, 2019, and 2020. Note 4 — LEASES Gross assets acquired under finance leases, inclusive of those where title transfers at the end of the lease, are recorded in “Property and equipment, net” and were $ 57.4 billion and $ 68.1 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $ 30.0 billion and $ 36.5 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Lease cost recognized in our consolidated statements of operations is summarized as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 Operating lease cost $ 3,669 $ 5,019 Finance lease cost: Amortization of lease assets 10,094 8,452 Interest on lease liabilities 695 617 Finance lease cost 10,789 9,069 Variable lease cost 966 1,238 Total lease cost $ 15,424 $ 15,326 53 Table of Contents Other information about lease amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements is as follows: December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term – operating leases 11.5 11.3 Weighted-average remaining lease term – finance leases 5.5 6.2 Weighted-average discount rate – operating leases 3.1 % 2.5 % Weighted-average discount rate – finance leases 2.7 % 2.1 % Our lease liabilities were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 31,963 $ 28,875 $ 60,838 Less: imputed interest ( 6,128 ) ( 1,896 ) ( 8,024 ) Present value of lease liabilities 25,835 26,979 52,814 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 3,139 ) ( 9,884 ) ( 13,023 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 22,696 $ 17,095 $ 39,791 December 31, 2020 Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 46,164 $ 30,437 $ 76,601 Less: imputed interest ( 7,065 ) ( 2,003 ) ( 9,068 ) Present value of lease liabilities 39,099 28,434 67,533 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 4,586 ) ( 10,374 ) ( 14,960 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 34,513 $ 18,060 $ 52,573 Note 5 — ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2018 Acquisition Activity On April 12, 2018, we acquired Ring Inc. for cash consideration of approximately $ 839 million, net of cash acquired, and on September 11, 2018, we acquired PillPack, Inc. for cash consideration of approximately $ 753 million, net of cash acquired, to expand our product and service offerings. During 2018, we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 57 million. 2019 Acquisition Activity During 2019, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 315 million, net of cash acquired. 2020 Acquisition Activity During 2020, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 1.2 billion, net of cash acquired, of which $ 1.1 billion was capitalized to in-process research and development intangible assets (“IPR&D”). The primary reason for all acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of 2020 acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 54 Table of Contents Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2019 and 2020 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2019 $ 12,191 $ 1,270 $ 1,087 $ 14,548 New acquisitions 71 29 89 189 Other adjustments (1) 2 1 14 17 Goodwill - December 31, 2019 12,264 1,300 1,190 14,754 New acquisitions 204 6 2 212 Other adjustments (1) 59 ( 18 ) 10 51 Goodwill - December 31, 2020 $ 12,527 $ 1,288 $ 1,202 $ 15,017 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. Intangible Assets Acquired identifiable intangible assets are valued primarily by using discounted cash flows. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2019 2020 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Finite-lived intangible assets (2): Marketing-related $ 2,303 $ ( 340 ) $ 1,963 $ 2,289 $ ( 445 ) $ 1,844 20.0 Contract-based 1,680 ( 302 ) 1,378 1,917 ( 418 ) 1,499 11.0 Technology- and content-based 1,005 ( 477 ) 528 948 ( 555 ) 393 3.3 Customer-related 282 ( 130 ) 152 179 ( 77 ) 102 4.0 Total finite-lived intangible assets $ 5,270 $ ( 1,249 ) $ 4,021 $ 5,333 $ ( 1,495 ) $ 3,838 14.4 IPR&D and other (3) $ 28 $ 28 $ 1,143 $ 1,143 Total acquired intangibles $ 5,298 $ ( 1,249 ) $ 4,049 $ 6,476 $ ( 1,495 ) $ 4,981 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Finite-lived intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years , and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis. (3) Intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are in-process and used in research and development activities are considered indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the research and development efforts. Once the research and development efforts are completed, we determine the useful life and begin amortizing the assets . 55 Table of Contents Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangibles was $ 475 million, $ 565 million, and $ 509 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020. Expected future amortization expense of acquired finite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2020 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 464 2022 430 2023 368 2024 303 2025 251 Thereafter 2,022 $ 3,838 Note 6 — DEBT As of December 31, 2020, we had $ 32.2 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”), including $ 10.0 billion issued in June 2020 for general corporate purposes. We also have other long-term debt and borrowings under our credit facility of $ 1.6 billion and $ 924 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Our total long-term debt obligations are as follows (in millions): Maturities (1) Stated Interest Rates Effective Interest Rates December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 2012 Notes issuance of $ 3.0 billion 2022 2.50 % 2.66 % 1,250 1,250 2014 Notes issuance of $ 6.0 billion 2021 - 2044 3.30 % - 4.95 % 3.43 % - 5.11 % 5,000 5,000 2017 Notes issuance of $ 17.0 billion 2023 - 2057 2.40 % - 5.20 % 2.56 % - 4.33 % 17,000 16,000 2020 Notes issuance of $ 10.0 billion 2023 - 2060 0.40 % - 2.70 % 0.56 % - 2.77 % — 10,000 Credit Facility 740 338 Other long-term debt 830 586 Total face value of long-term debt 24,820 33,174 Unamortized discount and issuance costs, net ( 101 ) ( 203 ) Less current portion of long-term debt ( 1,305 ) ( 1,155 ) Long-term debt $ 23,414 $ 31,816 ___________________ (1) The weighted average remaining lives of the 2012, 2014, 2017, and 2020 Notes were 1.9 , 11.8 , 16.2 , and 18.7 years as of December 31, 2020. The combined weighted average remaining life of the Notes was 15.8 years as of December 31, 2020. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $ 26.2 billion and $ 37.7 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates. In October 2016, we entered into a $ 500 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables, which we subsequently increased to $ 740 million and may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is available until October 2022, bears interest at the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.40 %, and has a commitment fee of 0.50 % on the undrawn portion. There were $ 740 million and $ 338 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, which had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.4 % and 3.0 %, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, we have pledged $ 852 million and $ 398 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. Other long-term debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 4.1 % and 2.9 % as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value of other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. 56 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020, future principal payments for our total long-term debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 1,156 2022 1,629 2023 2,283 2024 3,355 2025 2,251 Thereafter 22,500 $ 33,174 In April 2018, we established a commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $ 7.0 billion at any time, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. In June 2020, we increased the size of the Commercial Paper Program to $ 10.0 billion. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program as of December 31, 2019. There were $ 725 million of borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program as of December 31, 2020, which are included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets and have a weighted average effective interest rate, including issuance costs, of 0.11 %. We use the net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper for general corporate purposes. In April 2018, in connection with our Commercial Paper Program, we amended and restated our unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders to increase our borrowing capacity thereunder to $ 7.0 billion. In June 2020, we further amended and restated the Credit Agreement to extend the term to June 2023, and it may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders. The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the amended and restated Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.50 %, with a commitment fee of 0.04 % on the undrawn portion of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. We also utilize other short-term credit facilities for working capital purposes. These amounts are included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, we had $ 5.1 billion of unused letters of credit as of December 31, 2020. 57 Table of Contents Note 7 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating and finance leases and financing obligations for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Thereafter Total Long-term debt principal and interest $ 2,187 $ 2,622 $ 3,219 $ 4,272 $ 3,058 $ 35,680 $ 51,038 Operating lease liabilities 5,600 5,184 4,743 4,356 3,951 22,330 46,164 Finance lease liabilities, including interest 10,778 7,246 3,456 1,389 1,035 6,533 30,437 Financing obligations, including interest 227 230 233 237 240 3,751 4,918 Leases not yet commenced 1,010 1,738 1,876 1,973 1,951 20,321 28,869 Unconditional purchase obligations (1) 3,869 3,760 3,367 3,141 2,213 136 16,486 Other commitments (2)(3) 3,671 2,386 945 783 661 8,351 16,797 Total commitments $ 27,342 $ 23,166 $ 17,839 $ 16,151 $ 13,109 $ 97,102 $ 194,709 ___________________ (1) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction, asset retirement obligations, and liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year. (3) Excludes approximately $ 2.8 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Assets As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, we have pledged or otherwise restricted $ 994 million and $ 875 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. Additionally, we have pledged our cash and seller receivables for debt related to our Credit Facility. See “Note 6 — Debt.” Suppliers During 2020, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Other Contingencies We are subject to claims related to various indirect taxes (such as sales, value added, consumption, service, and similar taxes), including in jurisdictions in which we already collect and remit such taxes. If the relevant taxing authorities were successfully to pursue these claims, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. For example, in June 2017, the State of South Carolina issued an assessment for uncollected sales and use taxes for the period from January 2016 to March 2016, including interest and penalties. South Carolina is alleging that we should have collected sales and use taxes on transactions by our third-party sellers. In September 2019, the South Carolina Administrative Law Court ruled in favor of the Department of Revenue and we have appealed the decision to the state Court of Appeals. We believe the assessment is without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. If other tax authorities were successfully to seek additional adjustments of a similar nature, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. 58 Table of Contents Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: In March 2015, Zitovault, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc., and Amazon Web Services, LLC for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that Elastic Compute Cloud, Virtual Private Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing, Auto-Scaling, and Elastic Beanstalk infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,484,257, entitled “System and Method for Maintaining N Number of Simultaneous Cryptographic Sessions Using a Distributed Computing Environment.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. In January 2016, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. In June 2016, the case was stayed pending resolution of a review petition we filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In January 2019, the stay of the case was lifted following resolution of the review petition. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2015, Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of “interactive features” on www.amazon.com, including “search suggestions and search results,” infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,195,507, entitled “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects Within A Hypermedia Document.” The complaint sought a judgment of infringement together with costs and attorneys’ fees. In February 2016, Eolas filed an amended complaint seeking, among other things, an unspecified amount of damages. In February 2017, Eolas alleged in its damages report that in the event of a finding of liability Amazon could be subject to $ 130 -$ 250 million in damages. In April 2017, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In May 2018, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and CF Dynamic Advances LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “Alexa Voice Software and Alexa enabled devices” infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,177,798, entitled “Natural Language Interface Using Constrained Intermediate Dictionary of Results.” The complaint seeks an injunction, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, an ongoing royalty, pre- and post-judgment interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2018, Kove IO, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon S3 and DynamoDB infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,814,170 and 7,103,640, both entitled “Network Distributed Tracking Wire Transfer Protocol,” and 7,233,978, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Managing Location Information In A Network Separate From The Data To Which The Location Information Pertains.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2020, a number of class-action complaints were filed alleging, among other things, price fixing arrangements between Amazon.com, Inc. and third-party sellers in Amazon’s stores, monopolization and attempted monopolization of an alleged market in online retail or other submarkets, and consumer protection and unjust enrichment claims. In March 2020, Frame-Wilson v. Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. Beginning in April 2020, class action complaints were filed in the Superior Court of Quebec – Division of Montreal, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, and the Federal Court of Canada against Amazon.com, Inc. and related entities. The complaints allege several distinct purported classes, including consumers who purchased a product through Amazon’s stores and consumers who purchased a product offered by Amazon through another e-commerce retailer. The complaints seek billions of dollars of alleged actual damages, treble damages, punitive damages, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In November 2020, the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections alleging that Amazon uses data relating to our marketplace sellers in a manner that infringes EU competition rules. The Statement of Objections seeks to impose unspecified fines and remedial actions. We disagree with the preliminary assertions of the European Commission and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In addition, we are regularly subject to claims, litigation, and other proceedings, including potential regulatory proceedings, involving patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition and antitrust, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties, and other matters. The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. We evaluate, on a regular 59 Table of Contents basis, developments in our legal proceedings and other contingencies that could affect the amount of liability, including amounts in excess of any previous accruals and reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our accruals and disclosures as appropriate. For the matters we disclose that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss or range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. Until the final resolution of such matters, if any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, we may experience losses in excess of the amounts recorded, which could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See also “Note 9 — Income Taxes.” Note 8 — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $ 0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any year presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 507 million, 512 million, and 518 million, as of December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020. These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity In February 2016, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $ 5.0 billion of our common stock, with no fixed expiration. There were no repurchases of common stock in 2018, 2019, or 2020. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Cost of sales $ 73 $ 149 $ 283 Fulfillment 1,121 1,182 1,357 Technology and content 2,888 3,725 5,061 Marketing 769 1,135 1,710 General and administrative 567 673 797 Total stock-based compensation expense (1) $ 5,418 $ 6,864 $ 9,208 ___________________ (1) The related tax benefits were $ 1.1 billion, $ 1.4 billion, and $ 1.9 billion for 2018, 2019, and 2020. 60 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2018 20.1 $ 725 Units granted 5.0 1,522 Units vested ( 7.1 ) 578 Units forfeited ( 2.1 ) 862 Outstanding as of December 31, 2018 15.9 1,024 Units granted 6.7 1,808 Units vested ( 6.6 ) 827 Units forfeited ( 1.7 ) 1,223 Outstanding as of December 31, 2019 14.3 1,458 Units granted 8.0 2,373 Units vested ( 5.8 ) 1,239 Units forfeited ( 1.3 ) 1,642 Outstanding as of December 31, 2020 15.2 2,004 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2020, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting — restricted stock units 5.7 5.4 2.7 1.2 0.1 0.1 15.2 As of December 31, 2020, there was $ 13.3 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a remaining weighted-average recognition period of 1.2 years. The estimated forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020 was 27 %. Changes in our estimates and assumptions relating to forfeitures may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. During 2018, 2019, and 2020, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $ 11.4 billion, $ 11.7 billion, and $ 15.5 billion. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance As of December 31, 2020, common stock available for future issuance to employees is 102 million shares. Note 9 — INCOME TAXES In 2018, 2019, and 2020, we recorded net tax provisions of $ 1.2 billion, $ 2.4 billion, and $ 2.9 billion. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $ 1.2 billion, $ 881 million, and $ 1.7 billion for 2018, 2019, and 2020. U.S. companies are eligible for a deduction that lowers the effective tax rate on certain foreign income. This regime is referred to as the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction (“FDII”). In addition, certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. The U.S. tax rules also provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included the election of full expensing of qualified property for 2018 and 2019 and a partial election for 2020. 61 Table of Contents The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 U.S. Federal: Current $ ( 129 ) $ 162 $ 1,835 Deferred 565 914 ( 151 ) Total 436 1,076 1,684 U.S. State: Current 322 276 626 Deferred 5 8 ( 190 ) Total 327 284 436 International: Current 563 1,140 956 Deferred ( 129 ) ( 126 ) ( 213 ) Total 434 1,014 743 Provision for income taxes, net $ 1,197 $ 2,374 $ 2,863 U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 U.S. $ 11,157 $ 13,285 $ 20,219 International 104 691 3,959 Income before income taxes $ 11,261 $ 13,976 $ 24,178 The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate $ 2,365 $ 2,935 $ 5,078 Effect of: Tax impact of foreign earnings and losses 162 453 ( 538 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 263 221 343 Tax credits ( 419 ) ( 466 ) ( 639 ) Stock-based compensation (1) ( 1,086 ) ( 850 ) ( 1,107 ) Foreign income deduction (FDII) ( 43 ) ( 72 ) ( 372 ) 2017 Impact of U.S. Tax Act ( 157 ) — — Other, net 112 153 98 Total $ 1,197 $ 2,374 $ 2,863 ___________________ (1) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Our tax provision includes $ 1.6 billion, $ 1.4 billion, and $ 1.8 billion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for 2018, 2019, and 2020. Our provision for income taxes in 2019 was higher than in 2018 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, a decline in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the one-time provisional tax benefit of the U.S. Tax Act recognized in 2018. Our provision for income taxes in 2020 was higher than in 2019 primarily due to an increase in pretax income. This was partially offset by the impact of developments in our ongoing global tax controversies on taxes related to our foreign earnings and losses, an increase in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and an increase in our foreign income deduction under FDII. In addition, our Luxembourg operations generated earnings in 2020 and utilized deferred tax assets previously subject to valuation allowances. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. 62 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 2020 Deferred tax assets (1): Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States 188 245 Loss carryforwards - Foreign 3,232 3,876 Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses 1,373 2,457 Stock-based compensation 1,585 2,033 Depreciation and amortization 2,385 1,886 Operating lease liabilities 6,648 10,183 Other items 728 559 Tax credits 772 207 Total gross deferred tax assets 16,911 21,446 Less valuation allowances (2) ( 5,754 ) ( 5,803 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances 11,157 15,643 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( 5,507 ) ( 5,508 ) Operating lease assets ( 6,331 ) ( 9,539 ) Other items ( 640 ) ( 1,462 ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowances $ ( 1,321 ) $ ( 866 ) ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets are presented after tax effects and net of tax contingencies. (2) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions. Our valuation allowances primarily relate to foreign deferred tax assets, including substantially all of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2020. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes as of December 31, 2020 were approximately $ 13.4 billion before tax effects and certain of these amounts are subject to annual limitations under applicable tax law. If not utilized, a portion of these losses will begin to expire in 2021. All remaining federal tax credits, which were primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit, reduced our federal tax liability in 2020. We regularly assess whether it is more likely than not that we will realize our deferred tax assets in each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. In performing this assessment with respect to each jurisdiction, we review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains, and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business make estimates of future earnings more challenging. Since Q2 2017, we have recorded a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in Luxembourg. There is still significant uncertainty whether our earnings in Luxembourg are sustainable in the future and we will maintain the valuation allowance until sufficient positive evidence exists to support a release of the valuation allowance. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. 63 Table of Contents The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 2,309 $ 3,414 $ 3,923 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 164 216 88 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods ( 90 ) ( 181 ) ( 465 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 1,088 707 507 Settlements with tax authorities ( 36 ) ( 207 ) ( 1,207 ) Lapse of statute of limitations ( 21 ) ( 26 ) ( 26 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 3,414 $ 3,923 $ 2,820 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $ 2.8 billion of accrued tax contingencies of which $ 1.5 billion, if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. The decrease in our tax contingencies in 2020 was primarily a result of developments in our global tax controversies. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $ 131 million and $ 83 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020 was $ 20 million, $ 4 million, and $( 48 ) million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year 2013 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. During Q3 2020, we resolved the audits of tax years 2007 through 2012 with the IRS for amounts that were materially consistent with our accrual. In October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. On October 4, 2017, the European Commission announced its decision that determinations by the tax authorities in Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules on state aid. Based on that decision the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately € 250 million, plus interest, for the period May 2006 through June 2014, and ordered Luxembourg tax authorities to calculate the actual amount of additional taxes subject to recovery. Luxembourg computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’s decision, that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. In December 2017, Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’s decision. In May 2018, we appealed. We believe the European Commission’s decision to be without merit and will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments by the relevant authorities in respect of these particular jurisdictions primarily for 2009 and thereafter. Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations may impact our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements could result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on prior years’ tax filings. The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes. Note 10 — SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” based on usage, which is generally reflected in the segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of technology infrastructure costs are allocated to the AWS segment based on usage. The majority of the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s business performance and manages its operations. 64 Table of Contents North America The North America segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused online and physical stores. This segment includes export sales from these online stores. International The International segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused online stores. This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused online stores (including export sales from these online stores to customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North America-focused online stores. AWS The AWS segment consists of amounts earned from global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 North America Net sales $ 141,366 $ 170,773 $ 236,282 Operating expenses 134,099 163,740 227,631 Operating income $ 7,267 $ 7,033 $ 8,651 International Net sales $ 65,866 $ 74,723 $ 104,412 Operating expenses 68,008 76,416 103,695 Operating income (loss) $ ( 2,142 ) $ ( 1,693 ) $ 717 AWS Net sales $ 25,655 $ 35,026 $ 45,370 Operating expenses 18,359 25,825 31,839 Operating income $ 7,296 $ 9,201 $ 13,531 Consolidated Net sales $ 232,887 $ 280,522 $ 386,064 Operating expenses 220,466 265,981 363,165 Operating income 12,421 14,541 22,899 Total non-operating income (expense) ( 1,160 ) ( 565 ) 1,279 Provision for income taxes ( 1,197 ) ( 2,374 ) ( 2,863 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 9 ( 14 ) 16 Net income $ 10,073 $ 11,588 $ 21,331 65 Table of Contents Net sales by groups of similar products and services, which also have similar economic characteristics, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 Net Sales: Online stores (1) $ 122,987 $ 141,247 $ 197,346 Physical stores (2) 17,224 17,192 16,227 Third-party seller services (3) 42,745 53,762 80,461 Subscription services (4) 14,168 19,210 25,207 AWS 25,655 35,026 45,370 Other (5) 10,108 14,085 21,453 Consolidated $ 232,887 $ 280,522 $ 386,064 ___________________ (1) Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software. These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store. Sales to customers who order goods online for delivery or pickup at our physical stores are included in “Online stores.” (3) Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. (4) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS subscription services. (5) Primarily includes sales of advertising services, as well as sales related to our other service offerings. Net sales generated from our internationally-focused online stores are denominated in local functional currencies. Revenues are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 United States $ 160,146 $ 193,636 $ 263,520 Germany 19,881 22,232 29,565 United Kingdom 14,524 17,527 26,483 Japan 13,829 16,002 20,461 Rest of world 24,507 31,125 46,035 Consolidated $ 232,887 $ 280,522 $ 386,064 Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such as cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based on usage, with the majority allocated to the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 2019 2020 North America (1) $ 47,251 $ 72,277 $ 108,405 International (1) 19,923 30,709 42,212 AWS (2) 26,340 36,500 47,574 Corporate 69,134 85,762 123,004 Consolidated $ 162,648 $ 225,248 $ 321,195 ___________________ (1) North America and International segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment, operating leases, inventory, and accounts receivable. (2) AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts receivable. 66 Table of Contents Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2018 2019 2020 North America $ 27,052 $ 31,719 $ 54,912 International 8,552 9,566 15,375 AWS 18,851 23,481 32,151 Corporate 7,342 7,939 10,676 Consolidated $ 61,797 $ 72,705 $ 113,114 Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 North America (1) $ 10,749 $ 11,752 $ 29,889 International (1) 2,476 3,298 8,072 AWS (2) 9,783 13,058 16,530 Corporate 2,060 1,910 3,485 Consolidated $ 25,068 $ 30,018 $ 57,976 ___________________ (1) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $ 2.0 billion, $ 3.8 billion, and $ 5.6 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020, and under financing obligations of $ 3.0 billion, $ 1.3 billion, and $ 2.7 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020. (2) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $ 8.4 billion, $ 10.6 billion, and $ 7.7 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020, and under financing obligations of $ 245 million, $ 0 million, and $ 130 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020. U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $ 45.1 billion, $ 69.8 billion, and $ 109.5 billion, in 2018, 2019, and 2020, and non-U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $ 16.7 billion, $ 28.0 billion, and $ 41.2 billion in 2018, 2019, and 2020. Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net and operating leases in any single country were less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net and operating leases. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, including corporate property and equipment, are allocated to all segments based on usage. Total depreciation and amortization expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2019 2020 North America $ 4,415 $ 5,106 $ 6,421 International 1,628 1,886 2,215 AWS 6,095 8,158 7,603 Consolidated $ 12,138 $ 15,150 $ 16,239 67 Table of Contents Note 11 — QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2019 and 2020. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2019 (1) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ 59,700 $ 63,404 $ 69,981 $ 87,437 Operating income 4,420 3,084 3,157 3,879 Income before income taxes 4,401 2,889 2,632 4,053 Provision for income taxes ( 836 ) ( 257 ) ( 494 ) ( 786 ) Net income 3,561 2,625 2,134 3,268 Basic earnings per share 7.24 5.32 4.31 6.58 Diluted earnings per share 7.09 5.22 4.23 6.47 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 491 493 495 496 Diluted 502 503 504 505 Year Ended December 31, 2020 (1) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ 75,452 $ 88,912 $ 96,145 $ 125,555 Operating income 3,989 5,843 6,194 6,873 Income before income taxes 3,383 6,221 6,809 7,765 Provision for income taxes ( 744 ) ( 984 ) ( 569 ) ( 566 ) Net income 2,535 5,243 6,331 7,222 Basic earnings per share 5.09 10.50 12.63 14.38 Diluted earnings per share 5.01 10.30 12.37 14.09 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 498 500 501 502 Diluted 506 509 512 513 ___________________ (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. 68 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our stores to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, and Ring, and we develop and produce media content. We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes fast, free shipping on millions of items, access to award-winning movies and series, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in the risk factors below, the global economic climate and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. Business and Industry Risks We Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors across geographies, including cross-border competition, and in different industries, including physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, e-commerce services, web and infrastructure computing services, electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, and transportation and logistics services. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors, and as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us. As a result of competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or services could result in the value of those investments being written down or written off. In addition, our sustainability initiatives may be unsuccessful for a variety of reasons, including if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of new technologies or if we do not successfully plan or execute new strategies, which could harm our business or damage our reputation. Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation (such as regulation of our product and service offerings and of competition); restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); nationalization; and restrictions on foreign ownership; • restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal 6 Table of Contents precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights; • business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use, data protection, data security, network security, consumer protection, payments, advertising, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; • lower levels of use of the Internet; • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.; • lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; • different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties; • laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. The inability to hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may limit our international growth. The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the Internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) Internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services. For example, in order to meet local ownership, regulatory licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, we provide certain technology services in China through contractual relationships with third parties that hold PRC licenses to provide services. In India, the government restricts the ownership or control of Indian companies by foreign entities involved in online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to third-party sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold indirect minority interests in entities that are third-party sellers on the www.amazon.in marketplace. Although we believe these structures and activities comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India may from time to time consider and implement additional changes in their regulatory, licensing, or other requirements that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and it is possible that these governments will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or, in China, enforce contractual relationships we or our affiliates have in place. Violation of any existing or future PRC, Indian, or other laws or regulations or changes in the interpretations of those laws and regulations could result in our businesses in those countries being subject to fines and other financial penalties, having licenses revoked, or being forced to restructure our operations or shut down entirely. The Variability in Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including as a result of seasonality, promotions, product launches, or unforeseeable events, such as in response to natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur during our fourth quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce profitability. We regularly experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable 7 Table of Contents to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere in this   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Washington’s Puget Sound region and Arlington, Virginia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, inflation, labor market and global supply chain constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, variability in demand, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the global economic climate and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic amplify many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results or outcomes to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. 19 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2021, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $370 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to change due to economic, political, and other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use our deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 66,064 $ 46,327 Investing activities (59,611) (58,154) Financing activities (1,104) 6,291 Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $84.4 billion and $96.0 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $23.5 billion and $22.7 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, and were primarily British Pounds, Euros, Japanese Yen, and Canadian Dollars. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $66.1 billion and $46.3 billion in 2020 and 2021. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The decrease in operating cash flow in 2021, compared to the prior year, was 20 Table of Contents primarily due to changes in working capital, partially offset by the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(59.6) billion and $(58.2) billion in 2020 and 2021, with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $35.0 billion, and $55.4 billion in 2020 and 2021, which primarily reflect investments in additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS), which investments we expect to continue over time. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion in 2020 and 2021. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(1.1) billion and $6.3 billion in 2020 and 2021. Cash inflows from financing activities resulted from proceeds from short-term debt, and other and long-term-debt of $17.3 billion and $27.0 billion in 2020 and 2021. Cash outflows from financing activities resulted from payments of short-term debt, and other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $18.4 billion and $20.7 billion in 2020 and 2021. Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $11.6 billion and $7.1 billion in 2020 and 2021, reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS. We had no borrowings outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility, $725 million of borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs, and $803 million of borrowings outstanding under our secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of December 31, 2021. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. As of December 31, 2021, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $7.6 billion. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included the election of full expensing of qualified property for 2019 and a partial election for 2020 and 2021. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $1.7 billion and $3.7 billion for 2020 and 2021. Effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes, which will delay the deductibility of these expenses and potentially increase the amount of cash taxes we pay. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $257 million and $260 million. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” and “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, we have purchase obligations and open purchase orders, including for inventory and capital expenditures, that support normal operations and are primarily due in the next twelve months. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Overview As reflected in the discussion below, ongoing direct and indirect impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken in response to them had varying effects on our 2021 results of operations, although some effects, including customer demand, are mitigating or becoming more difficult to isolate or quantify. Moreover, it is not possible to determine the duration and scope of the pandemic, the scale and rate of economic recovery from the pandemic, any ongoing effects on consumer demand and spending patterns, supply chain disruptions, and labor availability and costs, or the impact of other indirect factors that may be attributable to the pandemic, and the extent to which these or other currently unanticipated consequences of the pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our results of operations. However, we expect our net sales growth rate to decelerate in Q1 2022 compared to the increase we experienced in Q1 2021. In addition, these direct and indirect factors can make it difficult to isolate and quantify the portion of our costs that are a direct result of the pandemic and costs arising from factors that may have been influenced by the pandemic, including increased wage rates and incentives, increased carrier rates, and fulfillment network inefficiencies resulting from constrained labor markets and global supply chain constraints. We expect these factors and their effects on our operations to continue into Q1 2022. 22 Table of Contents Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Net Sales: North America $ 236,282 $ 279,833 International 104,412 127,787 AWS 45,370 62,202 Consolidated $ 386,064 $ 469,822 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 38 % 18 % International 40 22 AWS 30 37 Consolidated 38 22 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 38 % 18 % International 38 20 AWS 30 37 Consolidated 37 21 Net sales mix: North America 61 % 60 % International 27 27 AWS 12 13 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 22% in 2021, compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales by $1.4 billion and $3.8 billion for 2020 and 2021. For a discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 18% in 2021, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, and increased demand, partially offset by fulfillment network inefficiencies and supply chain constraints. We expect our North America sales growth rate to decelerate in Q1 2022 compared to the increase we experienced in Q1 2021. International sales increased 22% in 2021, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, and increased demand, partially offset by fulfillment network inefficiencies and supply chain constraints. We expect our International sales growth rate to decelerate in Q1 2022 compared to the increase we experienced in Q1 2021. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $1.7 billion and $3.0 billion in 2020 and 2021. AWS sales increased 37% in 2021, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers. 23 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Operating Income (Loss): North America $ 8,651 $ 7,271 International 717 (924) AWS 13,531 18,532 Consolidated $ 22,899 $ 24,879 Operating income was $22.9 billion and $24.9 billion for 2020 and 2021. We believe that operating income (loss) is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The decrease in North America operating income in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased shipping and fulfillment costs, due in part to increased investments in our fulfillment network, increased wage rates and incentives, increased carrier rates, and fulfillment network inefficiencies, and growth in certain operating expenses, including marketing, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $8 million and $88 million for 2020 and 2021. The International operating loss in 2021, as compared to the operating income in the prior year, is primarily due to increased shipping and fulfillment costs, due in part to increased investments in our fulfillment network, increased wage rates and incentives, and increased carrier rates, and growth in certain operating expenses, including marketing, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income (loss) by $411 million and $435 million for 2020 and 2021. The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset by increased spending on technology infrastructure and payroll and related expenses, all of which were primarily driven by additional investments to support the business growth, and reduced prices for our customers. Changes in foreign exchange rates impacted operating income by $30 million and $(372) million for 2020 and 2021. 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 233,307 $ 272,344 Fulfillment 58,517 75,111 Technology and content 42,740 56,052 Marketing 22,008 32,551 General and administrative 6,668 8,823 Other operating expense (income), net (75) 62 Total operating expenses $ 363,165 $ 444,943 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost of sales 41 % 17 % Fulfillment 45 28 Technology and content 19 31 Marketing 17 48 General and administrative 28 32 Other operating expense (income), net (137) (183) Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 60.4 % 58.0 % Fulfillment 15.2 16.0 Technology and content 11.1 11.9 Marketing 5.7 6.9 General and administrative 1.7 1.9 Other operating expense (income), net — — Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, costs from expanding our fulfillment network, as well as increased carrier rates, increased wage rates and incentives, and fulfillment network inefficiencies resulting from a constrained labor market and global supply chain constraints. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $61.1 billion and $76.7 billion in 2020 and 2021. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in “Fulfillment,” AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and 25 Table of Contents content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing and related transaction costs as a percentage of net sales compared to our retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, increased wage rates and incentives and fulfillment network inefficiencies resulting from a constrained labor market and global supply chain constraints, and costs from expanding our fulfillment network. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to an increase in spending on technology infrastructure and increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings. We expect technology and content costs to grow at a slower rate in 2022 due to increases in the estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment, which will primarily impact our AWS segment. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures — Use of Estimates” for additional information on the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment. Marketing Marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third party customer referrals, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to higher marketing spend, which was constrained in 2020 in response to COVID-19, and increased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities. While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2021, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional fees. 26 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $(75) million and $62 million during 2020 and 2021, and was primarily related to a benefit from accelerated vesting of warrants to acquire equity of a vendor in 2020, offset by a lease impairment in 2020 and the amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $555 million and $448 million during 2020 and 2021. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion in 2020 and 2021 and was primarily related to debt and finance leases. Our long-term lease liabilities were $52.6 billion and $67.7 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Our long-term debt was $31.8 billion and $48.7 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $2.4 billion and $14.6 billion during 2020 and 2021. The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and foreign currency. Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 is a valuation gain of $11.8 billion from our equity securities of Rivian Automotive, Inc., which completed an initial public offering in November 2021. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in relevant jurisdictions. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $2.9 billion and $4.8 billion in 2020 and 2021. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. 27 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives.” The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2020 and 2021 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 66,064 $ 46,327 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (35,044) (55,396) Free cash flow $ 31,020 $ (9,069) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (59,611) $ (58,154) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,104) $ 6,291 Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance leases” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” Principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2020 and 2021 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 66,064 $ 46,327 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (35,044) (55,396) Free cash flow 31,020 (9,069) Principal repayments of finance leases (10,642) (11,163) Principal repayments of financing obligations (53) (162) Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ 20,325 $ (20,394) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (59,611) $ (58,154) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,104) $ 6,291 28 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases,” principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities, which is included in “Principal repayments of finance leases,” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2020 and 2021 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 66,064 $ 46,327 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (35,044) (55,396) Free cash flow 31,020 (9,069) Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (9,104) (4,422) Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) (427) (687) Principal repayments of financing obligations (53) (162) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations $ 21,436 $ (14,340) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (59,611) $ (58,154) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,104) $ 6,291 ___________________ (1) For the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, this amount relates to equipment included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases” of $11,588 million and $7,061 million. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, this amount relates to property included in “Principal repayments of finance leases” of $10,642 million and $11,163 million. All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2021 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 386,064 $ (1,438) $ 384,626 $ 469,822 $ (3,804) $ 466,018 Operating expenses 363,165 (989) 362,176 444,943 (3,653) 441,290 Operating income 22,899 (449) 22,450 24,879 (151) 24,728 ___________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 29 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on February 3, 2022, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of February 3, 2022, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as uncertainty regarding the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer demand and spending, inflation, labor market and global supply chain constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2021 (in millions, except percentages): 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Money market funds $ 20,312 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 20,312 $ 20,312 Weighted average interest rate (0.02) % — % — % — % — % — % (0.02) % Corporate debt securities 18,063 6,253 8,231 2,044 921 — 35,512 35,764 Weighted average interest rate 0.34 % 1.02 % 1.02 % 1.35 % 1.22 % — % 0.70 % U.S. government and agency securities 1,584 837 561 672 558 61 4,273 4,300 Weighted average interest rate 0.30 % 0.39 % 1.00 % 1.14 % 0.99 % 1.01 % 0.65 % Asset-backed securities 1,237 1,966 1,722 959 312 500 6,696 6,738 Weighted average interest rate 1.19 % 0.93 % 1.28 % 1.27 % 0.99 % 1.14 % 1.14 % Foreign government and agency securities 105 52 22 — — — 179 181 Weighted average interest rate 0.97 % 1.12 % 0.74 % — % — % — % 0.98 % Other fixed income securities 142 264 222 57 — — 685 686 Weighted average interest rate 0.65 % 0.93 % 0.68 % 1.35 % — % — % 0.83 % $ 41,443 $ 9,372 $ 10,758 $ 3,732 $ 1,791 $ 561 $ 67,657 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities $ 67,981 As of December 31, 2021, we had long-term debt with a face value of $50.6 billion, including the current portion, primarily consisting of fixed rate unsecured senior notes. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. 31 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk During 2021, net sales from our International segment accounted for 27% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales increased by $3.0 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2021, of $22.7 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in fair value declines of $1.1 billion, $2.3 billion, and $4.5 billion. Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and are measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2021, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in losses of $285 million, $575 million, and $1.1 billion, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Equity Investment Risk As of December 31, 2021, our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $22.3 billion. Our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies, which primarily relate to Rivian Automotive, Inc., represent $20.3 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2021, and are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. We record our equity warrant investments in private companies at fair value and adjust our equity investments in private companies for observable price changes or impairments. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures” for additional information. 32 Table of Contents 

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP , Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ( PCAOB ID: 42 ) 34 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 36 Consolidated Statements of Operations 37 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 40 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41 33 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 3, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. 34 Table of Contents Income Taxes Description of the Matter As discussed in Notes 1 and 9 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions and during the ordinary course of business, there are many tax positions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The Company uses significant judgment in (1) determining whether a tax position’s technical merits are more likely than not to be sustained and (2) measuring the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. Auditing the recognition and measurement of the Company’s tax contingencies was challenging because the evaluation of whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained and the measurement of the benefit of various tax positions can be complex and involves significant auditor judgment.  Management’s evaluation of tax positions may involve the use of valuation methodologies and assumptions, including forecasts of income or loss, and is based on interpretations of tax laws and legal rulings. How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit We tested controls over the Company’s process to assess the technical merits of its tax contingencies, including controls over the assessment as to whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained; measurement of the benefit of its tax positions, including the selection of valuation methodologies and assumptions; determination of forecasts of income or loss; and development of the related disclosures. We involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and research and development tax professionals in assessing the technical merits of certain of the Company’s tax positions. Depending on the nature of the specific tax position and, as applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the Company’s analysis including the Company’s correspondence with such tax authorities and evaluating the underlying facts upon which the tax positions are based. We used our knowledge of and experience with international, transfer pricing, and other income tax laws by the relevant income tax authorities to evaluate the Company’s accounting for its tax contingencies. We evaluated developments in the applicable regulatory environments to assess potential effects on the Company’s positions, including recent decisions in relevant court cases. We analyzed the appropriateness of the Company’s valuation methodologies and assumptions, including the determination of forecasts of income or loss, and the accuracy of the Company’s calculations and data used to determine the amount of tax benefits to recognize. We have also evaluated the Company’s income tax disclosures in relation to these matters. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1996. Seattle, Washington February 3, 2022 35 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 32,173 $ 36,410 $ 42,377 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 11,588 21,331 33,364 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized content costs, operating lease assets, and other 21,789 25,251 34,296 Stock-based compensation 6,864 9,208 12,757 Other operating expense (income), net 164 ( 71 ) 137 Other expense (income), net ( 249 ) ( 2,582 ) ( 14,306 ) Deferred income taxes 796 ( 554 ) ( 310 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( 3,278 ) ( 2,849 ) ( 9,487 ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( 7,681 ) ( 8,169 ) ( 18,163 ) Accounts payable 8,193 17,480 3,602 Accrued expenses and other ( 1,383 ) 5,754 2,123 Unearned revenue 1,711 1,265 2,314 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 38,514 66,064 46,327 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment ( 16,861 ) ( 40,140 ) ( 61,053 ) Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives 4,172 5,096 5,657 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other ( 2,461 ) ( 2,325 ) ( 1,985 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 22,681 50,237 59,384 Purchases of marketable securities ( 31,812 ) ( 72,479 ) ( 60,157 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ( 24,281 ) ( 59,611 ) ( 58,154 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from short-term debt, and other 1,402 6,796 7,956 Repayments of short-term debt, and other ( 1,518 ) ( 6,177 ) ( 7,753 ) Proceeds from long-term debt 871 10,525 19,003 Repayments of long-term debt ( 1,166 ) ( 1,553 ) ( 1,590 ) Principal repayments of finance leases ( 9,628 ) ( 10,642 ) ( 11,163 ) Principal repayments of financing obligations ( 27 ) ( 53 ) ( 162 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ( 10,066 ) ( 1,104 ) 6,291 Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 70 618 ( 364 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 4,237 5,967 ( 5,900 ) CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD $ 36,410 $ 42,377 $ 36,477 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Net product sales $ 160,408 $ 215,915 $ 241,787 Net service sales 120,114 170,149 228,035 Total net sales 280,522 386,064 469,822 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 165,536 233,307 272,344 Fulfillment 40,232 58,517 75,111 Technology and content 35,931 42,740 56,052 Marketing 18,878 22,008 32,551 General and administrative 5,203 6,668 8,823 Other operating expense (income), net 201 ( 75 ) 62 Total operating expenses 265,981 363,165 444,943 Operating income 14,541 22,899 24,879 Interest income 832 555 448 Interest expense ( 1,600 ) ( 1,647 ) ( 1,809 ) Other income (expense), net 203 2,371 14,633 Total non-operating income (expense) ( 565 ) 1,279 13,272 Income before income taxes 13,976 24,178 38,151 Provision for income taxes ( 2,374 ) ( 2,863 ) ( 4,791 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax ( 14 ) 16 4 Net income $ 11,588 $ 21,331 $ 33,364 Basic earnings per share $ 23.46 $ 42.64 $ 65.96 Diluted earnings per share $ 23.01 $ 41.83 $ 64.81 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 494 500 506 Diluted 504 510 515 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Net income $ 11,588 $ 21,331 $ 33,364 Other comprehensive income (loss): Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $( 5 ), $( 36 ), and $ 47 78 561 ( 819 ) Reclassification adjustment for foreign currency translation included in “Other operating expense (income), net,” net of tax of $ 29 , $ 0 , and $ 0 ( 108 ) — — Net foreign currency translation adjustments ( 30 ) 561 ( 819 ) Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $( 12 ), $( 83 ), and $ 72 83 273 ( 343 ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $ 0 , $ 8 , and $ 13 ( 4 ) ( 28 ) ( 34 ) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities 79 245 ( 377 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) 49 806 ( 1,196 ) Comprehensive income $ 11,637 $ 22,137 $ 32,168 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2020 2021 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 42,122 $ 36,220 Marketable securities 42,274 59,829 Inventories 23,795 32,640 Accounts receivable, net and other 24,542 32,891 Total current assets 132,733 161,580 Property and equipment, net 113,114 160,281 Operating leases 37,553 56,082 Goodwill 15,017 15,371 Other assets 22,778 27,235 Total assets $ 321,195 $ 420,549 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 72,539 $ 78,664 Accrued expenses and other 44,138 51,775 Unearned revenue 9,708 11,827 Total current liabilities 126,385 142,266 Long-term lease liabilities 52,573 67,651 Long-term debt 31,816 48,744 Other long-term liabilities 17,017 23,643 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $ 0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 500 Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $ 0.01 par value: Authorized shares — 5,000 Issued shares — 527 and 532 Outstanding shares — 503 and 509 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost ( 1,837 ) ( 1,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 42,865 55,538 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( 180 ) ( 1,376 ) Retained earnings 52,551 85,915 Total stockholders’ equity 93,404 138,245 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 321,195 $ 420,549 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2019 491 $ 5 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 26,791 $ ( 1,035 ) $ 19,625 $ 43,549 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to leases — — — — — 7 7 Net income — — — — — 11,588 11,588 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 49 — 49 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock 7 — — 6,867 — — 6,867 Balance as of December 31, 2019 498 5 ( 1,837 ) 33,658 ( 986 ) 31,220 62,060 Net income — — — — — 21,331 21,331 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 806 — 806 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock 5 — — 9,207 — — 9,207 Balance as of December 31, 2020 503 5 ( 1,837 ) 42,865 ( 180 ) 52,551 93,404 Net income — — — — — 33,364 33,364 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( 1,196 ) — ( 1,196 ) Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock 6 — — 12,673 — — 12,673 Balance as of December 31, 2021 509 $ 5 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 55,538 $ ( 1,376 ) $ 85,915 $ 138,245 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 — DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS, ACCOUNTING POLICIES, AND SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES Description of Business We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees. We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. In addition, we provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 10 — Segment Information.” Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc. and its consolidated entities (collectively, the “Company”), consisting of its wholly-owned subsidiaries and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and certain entities that support our seller lending financing activities. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, useful lives of equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, inventory valuation, collectability of receivables, and valuation and impairment of investments. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. For example, in Q4 2021 we completed a useful life study for our servers and networking equipment and are increasing the useful lives from four years to five years for servers and from five years to six years for networking equipment in January 2022, which, based on servers and networking equipment that are included in “Property and equipment, net” as of December 31, 2021, will have an anticipated impact to our 2022 operating income of $ 3.1 billion. We had previously increased the useful life of our servers from three years to four years in January 2020. Supplemental Cash Flow Information The following table shows supplemental cash flow information (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on debt $ 875 $ 916 $ 1,098 Cash paid for operating leases $ 3,361 $ 4,475 $ 6,722 Cash paid for interest on finance leases $ 647 $ 612 $ 521 Cash paid for interest on financing obligations $ 39 $ 102 $ 153 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds $ 881 $ 1,713 $ 3,688 Assets acquired under operating leases $ 7,870 $ 16,217 $ 25,369 Property and equipment acquired under finance leases $ 13,723 $ 11,588 $ 7,061 Property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit lease arrangements $ 1,362 $ 2,267 $ 5,616 41 Table of Contents Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 494 500 506 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 10 10 9 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 504 510 515 Revenue Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin. A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period. Advertising services - We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. Revenue is recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. Other - Other revenue includes sales related to various other service offerings, which are recognized as or when those services are performed. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $ 712 million, $ 859 million, and $ 1.0 billion as of December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021. Additions to the allowance were $ 2.5 billion, $ 3.5 billion, and $ 5.1 billion and deductions from the allowance were $ 2.5 billion, $ 3.6 billion, and $ 4.9 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021. Included in “Inventories” on our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $ 629 million, $ 852 million, and $ 882 million as of December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. 42 Table of Contents Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive consideration primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers, including facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization, and rent; costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist of advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred and were $ 11.0 billion, $ 10.9 billion, and $ 16.9 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for corporate functions, including payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and professional fees. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all equity-classified stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience and employee level. Additionally, stock-based compensation includes stock 43 Table of Contents appreciation rights that are expected to settle in cash. These liability-classified awards are remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement or expiration. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of a benefit from accelerated vesting of warrants to acquire equity of a vendor in Q4 2020, offset by a lease impairment in Q2 2020 and the amortization of intangible assets. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Marketable equity securities valuation gains (losses) $ 7 $ 525 $ 11,526 Equity warrant valuation gains (losses) 11 1,527 1,315 Upward adjustments relating to equity investments in private companies 328 342 1,866 Foreign currency gains (losses) ( 20 ) 35 ( 55 ) Other, net ( 123 ) ( 58 ) ( 19 ) Total other income (expense), net 203 2,371 14,633 Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain of $ 11.8 billion from our equity investment in Rivian Automotive, Inc. (“Rivian”). Our investment in Rivian’s preferred stock was accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, prior to Rivian’s initial public offering in November 2021, which resulted in the conversion of our preferred stock to Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2021, we held 158 million shares of Rivian’s Class A common stock, representing an approximate 18 % ownership interest, and an approximate 16 % voting interest. We determined that we have the ability to exercise significant influence over Rivian through our equity investment, our commercial arrangement for the purchase of electric vehicles, and one of our employees serving on Rivian’s board of directors. We elected the fair value option to account for our equity investment in Rivian, and the 2021 valuation gain is primarily comprised of the gain recognized upon the initial public offering, and also includes subsequent changes in fair value through December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, our equity investment in Rivian had a fair value of $ 15.6 billion, which reflects a discount for lack of marketability until Q1 2022 of approximately $ 800 million due to regulatory sales restrictions, and is included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets. Summarized financial information of Rivian as disclosed in its SEC filings is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 Revenues $ — $ — $ 1 Gross profit — — ( 82 ) Loss from operations ( 409 ) ( 1,021 ) ( 1,766 ) Net loss ( 426 ) ( 1,018 ) ( 2,227 ) December 31, 2020 September 30, 2021 Total current assets $ 3,016 $ 5,345 Total assets 4,602 8,488 Total current liabilities 611 1,047 Total liabilities 742 4,201 Contingently redeemable convertible preferred stock 5,244 7,894 44 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 — Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds and certain marketable equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold significant amounts of marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. We hold equity warrants giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, these warrants had a fair value of $ 3.0 billion and $ 3.4 billion, and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets with gains and losses recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. These warrants are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. The inventory valuation allowance, representing a write-down of inventory, was $ 2.3 billion and $ 2.6 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. 45 Table of Contents We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, customer receivables, net, were $ 14.8 billion and $ 20.2 billion, vendor receivables, net, were $ 4.8 billion and $ 5.3 billion, and seller receivables, net, were $ 381 million and $ 1.0 billion. Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on expected losses, including our historical experience of actual losses. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ 718 million, $ 1.1 billion, and $ 1.1 billion as of December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021. Additions to the allowance were $ 1.0 billion, $ 1.4 billion, and $ 1.0 billion, and deductions to the allowance were $ 793 million, $ 1.0 billion, and $ 1.1 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021. Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction to our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period and finance lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, three years prior to January 1, 2020 and four years subsequent to January 1, 2020 for our servers, five years for networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to ten years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation and amortization expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases We categorize leases with contractual terms longer than twelve months as either operating or finance. Finance leases are generally those leases that allow us to substantially utilize or pay for the entire asset over its estimated life. Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in “Property and equipment, net.” All other leases are categorized as operating leases. Our leases generally have terms that range from one to ten years for equipment and one to twenty years for property. Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. For leases of property, we account for these other services as a component of the lease. For substantially all other leases, the services are accounted for separately and we allocate payments to the lease and other services components based on estimated stand-alone prices. Lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives using a discount rate based on similarly secured borrowings available to us. Lease assets are recognized based on the initial present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases or lease prepayments reclassified from “Other assets” upon lease commencement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the lease term. 46 Table of Contents When we have the option to extend the lease term, terminate the lease before the contractual expiration date, or purchase the leased asset, and it is reasonably certain that we will exercise the option, we consider the option in determining the classification and measurement of the lease. Our leases may include variable payments based on measures that include changes in price indices, market interest rates, or the level of sales at a physical store, which are expensed as incurred. Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized on a straight-line basis within operating expenses over the term of the lease. Finance lease assets are amortized within operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or, in the instance where title does not transfer at the end of the lease term, the lease term. The interest component of a finance lease is included in interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are amortized over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Financing Obligations We record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period. If we continue to control the building after the construction period, the arrangement is classified as a financing obligation instead of a lease. The building is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life or the term of the obligation. If we do not control the building after the construction period ends, the assets and liabilities for construction costs are derecognized, and we classify the lease as operating. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value and if so, we perform a quantitative test. We compare the carrying value of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset to its estimated fair value and if the fair value is determined to be less than the carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss for the difference. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual impairment test of goodwill for all reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of April 1, 2021, resulting in no impairments. The fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual impairment test. See “Note 5 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to video and music content, net of accumulated amortization; acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; equity warrant assets; long-term deferred tax assets; and certain equity investments. Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific video or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We reduce the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage or viewing patterns, or on a straight-line basis. If the licensing fee is not determinable or reasonably estimable, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing patterns associated with the content. The weighted average remaining life of our capitalized video content is 2.6 years. Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships. These film groups are evaluated for impairment whenever an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the fair value is less than the carrying value. The total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 were $ 6.8 billion and $ 10.7 billion. 47 Table of Contents Total video and music expense was $ 11.0 billion and $ 13.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2021. Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable fixed income securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are due to expected credit losses, as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Expected credit losses are recorded as an allowance through “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments in private companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, and are classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets with adjustments recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we perform a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether the investment is impaired. Our assessment includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. If the investment is impaired, we write it down to its estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, these investments had a carrying value of $ 2.7 billion and $ 603 million. Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, or at fair value if we elect the fair value option, if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, related gains or losses, and impairments, if any, are recognized in “Equity-method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are other-than-temporary and if so, we write down the investment to its estimated fair value. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values, including investments for which we have elected the fair value option, are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, including lease assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations, tax-related liabilities, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, customer liabilities, marketing liabilities, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $ 7.6 billion and $ 9.1 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $ 4.7 billion and $ 5.2 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns. 48 Table of Contents Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2020 was $ 11.6 billion, of which $ 9.3 billion was recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2021 and our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2021 was $ 14.0 billion. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $ 1.9 billion and $ 2.2 billion of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $ 80.4 billion as of December 31, 2021. The weighted average remaining life of our long-term contracts is 3.8 years. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. Other Long-Term Liabilities Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to financing obligations, asset retirement obligations, deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, tax contingencies, and digital video and music content. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $( 95 ) million, $( 118 ) million, and $ 19 million in 2019, 2020, and 2021. 49 Table of Contents Note 2 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Marketable Securities As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, other investment grade securities, and marketable equity securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2020 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,063 $ — $ — $ 10,063 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 27,430 — — 27,430 Equity securities (1) 617 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 5,130 1 — 5,131 U.S. government and agency securities 7,410 30 ( 1 ) 7,439 Corporate debt securities 29,684 305 ( 1 ) 29,988 Asset-backed securities 3,206 32 ( 3 ) 3,235 Other fixed income securities 701 9 — 710 Equity securities (1) 40 $ 83,624 $ 377 $ ( 5 ) $ 84,653 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 257 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 84,396 50 Table of Contents December 31, 2021 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,942 $ — $ — $ 10,942 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 20,312 — — 20,312 Equity securities (1) 1,646 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 181 — — 181 U.S. government and agency securities 4,316 9 ( 25 ) 4,300 Corporate debt securities 35,810 75 ( 121 ) 35,764 Asset-backed securities 6,763 7 ( 32 ) 6,738 Other fixed income securities 688 2 ( 4 ) 686 Equity securities (1)(3) 15,740 $ 79,012 $ 93 $ ( 182 ) $ 96,309 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 260 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 96,049 ___________________ (1) The related unrealized gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $ 4 million, $ 448 million, and $ 11.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021. (2) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable fixed income securities primarily as collateral for real estate, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable fixed income securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.” (3) Our equity investment in Rivian of $ 15.6 billion reflects a discount for lack of marketability until Q1 2022 due to regulatory sales restrictions. In addition, we are subject to contractual sales restrictions until Q2 2022. The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of marketable fixed income securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Realized gains $ 11 $ 92 $ 85 Realized losses 7 56 38 The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 39,070 $ 39,075 Due after one year through five years 22,790 22,712 Due after five years through ten years 2,124 2,121 Due after ten years 4,086 4,073 Total $ 68,070 $ 67,981 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 51 Table of Contents Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Reconciliation The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 Cash and cash equivalents $ 42,122 $ 36,220 Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other 233 242 Restricted cash included in other assets 22 15 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows $ 42,377 $ 36,477 Note 3 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2020 2021 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 57,324 $ 81,104 Equipment 97,224 128,683 Other assets 3,772 4,118 Construction in progress 15,228 24,895 Gross property and equipment 173,548 238,800 Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 60,434 78,519 Total property and equipment, net $ 113,114 $ 160,281 __________________ (1) Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $ 15.1 billion, $ 16.2 billion, and $ 22.9 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under finance leases of $ 10.1 billion, $ 8.5 billion, and $ 9.9 billion for 2019, 2020, and 2021. 52 Table of Contents Note 4 — LEASES We have entered into non-cancellable operating and finance leases for fulfillment, delivery, office, physical store, data center, and sortation facilities as well as server and networking equipment, vehicles, and aircraft. Gross assets acquired under finance leases, inclusive of those where title transfers at the end of the lease, are recorded in “ Property and equipment, net ” and were $ 68.1 billion and $ 72.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $ 36.5 billion and $ 43.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Lease cost recognized in our consolidated statements of operations is summarized as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Operating lease cost $ 3,669 $ 5,019 $ 7,199 Finance lease cost: Amortization of lease assets 10,094 8,452 9,857 Interest on lease liabilities 695 617 473 Finance lease cost 10,789 9,069 10,330 Variable lease cost 966 1,238 1,556 Total lease cost $ 15,424 $ 15,326 $ 19,085 Other information about lease amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements is as follows: December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term – operating leases 10.7 years 11.3 years Weighted-average remaining lease term – finance leases 6.2 years 8.1 years Weighted-average discount rate – operating leases 2.5 % 2.2 % Weighted-average discount rate – finance leases 2.1 % 2.0 % Our lease liabilities were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2020 Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 44,833 $ 30,437 $ 75,270 Less: imputed interest ( 5,734 ) ( 2,003 ) ( 7,737 ) Present value of lease liabilities 39,099 28,434 67,533 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 4,586 ) ( 10,374 ) ( 14,960 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 34,513 $ 18,060 $ 52,573 December 31, 2021 Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 66,269 $ 25,866 $ 92,135 Less: imputed interest ( 7,939 ) ( 2,113 ) ( 10,052 ) Present value of lease liabilities 58,330 23,753 82,083 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 6,349 ) ( 8,083 ) ( 14,432 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 51,981 $ 15,670 $ 67,651 Note 5 — ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2019 Acquisition Activity During 2019, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 315 million, net of cash acquired. 53 Table of Contents 2020 Acquisition Activity During 2020, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 1.2 billion, net of cash acquired, of which $ 1.1 billion was capitalized to in-process research and development intangible assets (“IPR&D”). 2021 Acquisition Activity During 2021, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 496 million, net of cash acquired. The primary reason for all acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of 2021 acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2020 and 2021 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2020 $ 12,264 $ 1,300 $ 1,190 $ 14,754 New acquisitions 204 6 2 212 Other adjustments (1) 59 ( 18 ) 10 51 Goodwill - December 31, 2020 12,527 1,288 1,202 15,017 New acquisitions 230 60 76 366 Other adjustments (1) 1 ( 21 ) 8 ( 12 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2021 $ 12,758 $ 1,327 $ 1,286 $ 15,371 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. 54 Table of Contents Intangible Assets Acquired identifiable intangible assets are valued primarily by using discounted cash flows. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2020 2021 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Finite-lived intangible assets (2): Marketing-related $ 2,289 $ ( 445 ) $ 1,844 $ 2,286 $ ( 548 ) $ 1,738 19.3 Contract-based 1,917 ( 418 ) 1,499 2,327 ( 565 ) 1,762 8.9 Technology- and content-based 948 ( 555 ) 393 976 ( 610 ) 366 3.1 Customer-related 179 ( 77 ) 102 197 ( 103 ) 94 2.9 Total finite-lived intangible assets $ 5,333 $ ( 1,495 ) $ 3,838 $ 5,786 $ ( 1,826 ) $ 3,960 12.8 IPR&D and other (3) $ 1,143 $ 1,143 $ 1,147 $ 1,147 Total acquired intangibles $ 6,476 $ ( 1,495 ) $ 4,981 $ 6,933 $ ( 1,826 ) $ 5,107 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Finite-lived intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years , and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis. (3) Intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are in-process and used in research and development activities are considered indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the research and development efforts. Once the research and development efforts are completed, we determine the useful life and begin amortizing the assets. Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangibles was $ 565 million, $ 509 million, and $ 512 million in 2019, 2020, and 2021. Expected future amortization expense of acquired finite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2021 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 528 2023 452 2024 378 2025 318 2026 290 Thereafter 1,994 $ 3,960 55 Table of Contents Note 6 — DEBT As of December 31, 2021, we had $ 49.7 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”). We issued $ 18.5 billion of Notes in May 2021, of which $ 1.0 billion was issued for green or social projects, such as projects related to clean transportation, renewable energy, sustainable buildings, affordable housing, or socioeconomic advancement and empowerment, and the remainder for general corporate purposes. We also had other long-term debt and borrowings under our credit facility of $ 924 million and $ 803 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. Our total long-term debt obligations are as follows (in millions): Maturities (1) Stated Interest Rates Effective Interest Rates December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 2012 Notes issuance of $ 3.0 billion 2022 2.50 % 2.66 % 1,250 1,250 2014 Notes issuance of $ 6.0 billion 2024 - 2044 3.80 % - 4.95 % 3.90 % - 5.11 % 5,000 4,000 2017 Notes issuance of $ 17.0 billion 2023 - 2057 2.40 % - 5.20 % 2.56 % - 4.33 % 16,000 16,000 2020 Notes issuance of $ 10.0 billion 2023 - 2060 0.40 % - 2.70 % 0.56 % - 2.77 % 10,000 10,000 2021 Notes issuance of $ 18.5 billion 2023 - 2061 0.25 % - 3.25 % 0.35 % - 3.31 % — 18,500 Credit Facility 338 803 Other long-term debt 586 — Total face value of long-term debt 33,174 50,553 Unamortized discount and issuance costs, net ( 203 ) ( 318 ) Less current portion of long-term debt ( 1,155 ) ( 1,491 ) Long-term debt $ 31,816 $ 48,744 ___________________ (1) The weighted-average remaining lives of the 2012, 2014, 2017, 2020 and 2021 Notes were 0.9 , 13.6 , 15.2 , 17.7 and 14.3 years as of December 31, 2021. The combined weighted-average remaining life of the Notes was 14.9 years as of December 31, 2021. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $ 37.7 billion and $ 53.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates. We have a $ 1.0 billion secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables, which we increased from $ 740 million in November 2021 and may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is available until October 2022, bears interest at the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.40 %, and has a commitment fee of 0.50 % on the undrawn portion. There were $ 338 million and $ 803 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, which had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.0 % and 2.7 %, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, we have pledged $ 398 million and $ 918 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. As of December 31, 2021, future principal payments for our total long-term debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 1,493 2023 3,560 2024 5,750 2025 2,250 2026 2,750 Thereafter 34,750 $ 50,553 We have U.S. Dollar and Euro commercial paper programs (the “Commercial Paper Programs”) under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $ 10.0 billion (including up to € 3.0 billion) at the date of issue, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. There were $ 725 million of borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Programs as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, which were included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets and had a weighted-average effective interest rate, including 56 Table of Contents issuance costs, of 0.11 % and 0.08 %, respectively. We use the net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper for general corporate purposes. We also have a $ 7.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of lenders with a term that extends to June 2023, which was amended in November 2021 to replace LIBOR as the applicable benchmark rate for loans denominated in certain foreign currencies (the “Credit Agreement”). It may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders. The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is the applicable benchmark rate specified in the Credit Agreement plus 0.50 %, with a commitment fee of 0.04 % on the undrawn portion of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. We also utilize other short-term credit facilities for working capital purposes. These amounts are included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, we had $ 7.2 billion of unused letters of credit as of December 31, 2021. Note 7 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter Total Long-term debt principal and interest $ 2,841 $ 4,852 $ 7,014 $ 3,400 $ 3,829 $ 52,784 $ 74,720 Operating lease liabilities 7,838 7,178 6,649 6,128 5,574 32,902 66,269 Finance lease liabilities, including interest 8,278 4,772 2,278 1,355 1,220 7,963 25,866 Financing obligations, including interest (1) 423 422 419 410 417 6,404 8,495 Leases not yet commenced 1,206 1,902 2,094 2,145 2,237 21,571 31,155 Unconditional purchase obligations (2) 5,969 5,910 5,158 4,213 4,159 9,493 34,902 Other commitments (3)(4) 2,905 1,620 1,290 1,006 1,137 11,325 19,283 Total commitments $ 29,460 $ 26,656 $ 24,902 $ 18,657 $ 18,573 $ 142,442 $ 260,690 ___________________ (1) Includes non-cancellable financing obligations for fulfillment, sortation, and data center facilities. Excluding interest, current financing obligations of $ 111 million and $ 196 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” and $ 3.4 billion and $ 6.2 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. The weighted-average remaining term of the financing obligations was 19.0 and 18.8 years and the weighted-average imputed interest rate was 3.8 % and 3.2 % as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. (2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (3) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction, asset retirement obligations, and liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year. (4) Excludes approximately $ 3.2 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. In addition, in May 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire MGM Holdings Inc. (“MGM”) for approximately $ 8.5 billion, including MGM’s debt, subject to customary closing conditions. We expect to fund this acquisition with cash on hand. Suppliers During 2021, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. 57 Table of Contents Other Contingencies We are disputing claims and denials of refunds or credits related to various non-income taxes (such as sales, value added, consumption, service, and similar taxes), including in jurisdictions in which we already collect and remit these taxes. These non-income tax contr oversies typically relate to (i) the taxability of products and services, including cross-border intercompany transactions, (ii) collection and withholding on transactions with third parties, and (iii) the adequacy of compliance with reporting obligations, including evolving documentation requirements. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and the judicial and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome of any such controversies may be materially different from our expectations. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: In November 2015, Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of “interactive features” on www.amazon.com, including “search suggestions and search results,” infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,195,507, entitled “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects Within A Hypermedia Document.” The complaint sought a judgment of infringement together with costs and attorneys’ fees. In February 2016, Eolas filed an amended complaint seeking, among other things, an unspecified amount of damages. In February 2017, Eolas alleged in its damages report that in the event of a finding of liability Amazon could be subject to $ 130 -$ 250 million in damages. In April 2017, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In May 2018, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and CF Dynamic Advances LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “Alexa Voice Software and Alexa enabled devices” infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,177,798, entitled “Natural Language Interface Using Constrained Intermediate Dictionary of Results.” The complaint seeks an injunction, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, an ongoing royalty, pre- and post-judgment interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2018, Kove IO, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon S3 and DynamoDB infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,814,170 and 7,103,640, both entitled “Network Distributed Tracking Wire Transfer Protocol,” and 7,233,978, entitled “Method And Apparatus For Managing Location Information In A Network Separate From The Data To Which The Location Information Pertains.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2020, with Frame-Wilson v. Amazon.com, Inc. filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, a number of cases have been filed in the U.S. and Canada alleging, among other things, price fixing arrangements between Amazon.com, Inc. and third-party sellers in Amazon’s stores, monopolization and attempted monopolization, and consumer protection and unjust enrichment claims. Some of the cases include allegations of several distinct purported classes, including consumers who purchased a product through Amazon’s stores and consumers who purchased a product offered by Amazon through another e-commerce retailer. The complaints seek billions of dollars of alleged actual damages, treble damages, punitive damages, and injunctive relief. Individuals have also initiated arbitrations based on substantially similar allegations. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In November 2020, the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections alleging that Amazon uses data relating to our marketplace sellers in a manner that infringes EU competition rules. The Statement of Objections seeks to impose unspecified fines and remedial actions. We disagree with the preliminary assertions of the European Commission and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2021, the Luxembourg National Commission for Data Protection (the “CNPD”) issued a decision against Amazon Europe Core S.à r.l. claiming that Amazon’s processing of personal data did not comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation. The decision imposes a fine of € 746 million and corresponding practice revisions. We believe the CNPD’s decision to be without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2021, Jawbone Innovations, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Echo smart speakers and displays, Fire TV Cube, and Echo Buds infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,246,058, entitled “Detecting Voiced and Unvoiced Speech Using Both Acoustic and Nonacoustic Sensors”; 8,019,091, entitled “Voice Activity 58 Table of Contents Detector (VAD)-Based Multiple-Microphone Acoustic Noise Suppression”; 8,280,072, entitled “Microphone Array with Rear Venting”; 8,321,213 and 8,326,611, both entitled “Acoustic Voice Activity Detection (AVAD) for Electronic Systems”; 8,467,543, entitled “Microphone and Voice Activity Detection (VAD) Configurations for Use with Communications Systems”; 10,779,080, entitled “Dual Omnidirectional Microphone Array (DOMA)”; and 11,122,357, entitled “Forming Virtual Microphone Arrays Using Dual Omnidirectional Microphone Array (DOMA).” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2021, the Italian Competition Authority (the “ICA”) issued a decision against Amazon Services Europe S.à r.l., Amazon Europe Core S.à r.l., Amazon EU S.à r.l., Amazon Italia Services S.r.l., and Amazon Italia Logistica S.r.l. claiming that certain of our marketplace and logistics practices in Italy infringed EU competition rules. The decision imposes a fine of € 1.13 billion and remedial actions. We believe the ICA’s decision to be without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In January 2022, VideoLabs, Inc. and VL Collective IP LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Prime Video, Amazon Glow, Amazon Echo Show, Fire TV, Fire TV Cube, Fire TV Stick, Fire Tablets, AWS Elemental MediaConvert, AWS Elemental Live, AWS Elemental Server, AWS Elemental MediaPackage, AWS Elemental MediaLive, and Amazon Elastic Transcoder infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,769,238 and 8,139,878, both entitled “Picture Coding Method and Picture Decoding Method”; and 7,970,059, entitled “Variable Length Coding Method and Variable Length Decoding Method”; that Amazon Prime Video, AWS Elemental MediaConvert, AWS Elemental Live, AWS Elemental Server, AWS Elemental MediaPackage, AWS Elemental MediaLive, Amazon Elastic Transcoder, and Amazon Kinesis Video Streams infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,605,794, entitled “Method for Synchronizing Content-Dependent Data Segments of Files”; that Amazon Echo Show, Amazon Echo Spot, Amazon Connect, Amazon Chime, and Amazon Kinesis Video Streams infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,266,682, entitled “Method and System for Transmitting Data from a Transmitter to a Receiver and Transmitter and Receiver Therefore”; that AWS Auto Scaling and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,880,156, entitled “Demand Responsive Method and Apparatus to Automatically Activate Spare Servers”; and that Amazon Prime Video infringes U.S. Patent No. 7,440,559, entitled “System and Associated Terminal, Method and Computer Program Product for Controlling the Flow of Content.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In addition, we are regularly subject to claims, litigation, and other proceedings, including potential regulatory proceedings, involving patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition and antitrust, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties, and other matters. The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal proceedings and other contingencies that could affect the amount of liability, including amounts in excess of any previous accruals and reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our accruals and disclosures as appropriate. For the matters we disclose that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss or range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. Until the final resolution of such matters, if any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, we may experience losses in excess of the amounts recorded, which could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See also “Note 9 — Income Taxes.” Note 8 — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $ 0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any year presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 512 million, 518 million, and 523 million, as of December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021. These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. 59 Table of Contents Stock Repurchase Activity In February 2016, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $ 5.0 billion of our common stock, with no fixed expiration. There were no repurchases of common stock in 2019, 2020, or 2021. During the period from January 1, 2022 through February 2, 2022, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock for $ 1.3 billion. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Cost of sales $ 149 $ 283 $ 540 Fulfillment 1,182 1,357 1,946 Technology and content 3,725 5,061 6,645 Marketing 1,135 1,710 2,530 General and administrative 673 797 1,096 Total stock-based compensation expense (1) $ 6,864 $ 9,208 $ 12,757 ___________________ (1) The related tax benefits were $ 1.4 billion, $ 1.9 billion, and $ 2.7 billion for 2019, 2020, and 2021. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2019 15.9 $ 1,024 Units granted 6.7 1,808 Units vested ( 6.6 ) 827 Units forfeited ( 1.7 ) 1,223 Outstanding as of December 31, 2019 14.3 1,458 Units granted 8.0 2,373 Units vested ( 5.8 ) 1,239 Units forfeited ( 1.3 ) 1,642 Outstanding as of December 31, 2020 15.2 2,004 Units granted 6.3 3,348 Units vested ( 5.4 ) 1,704 Units forfeited ( 2.1 ) 2,314 Outstanding as of December 31, 2021 14.0 2,684 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2021, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting — restricted stock units 5.4 5.2 2.2 0.9 0.1 0.2 14.0 As of December 31, 2021, there was $ 16.6 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a remaining weighted-average recognition period of 1.1 years. The estimated forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021 was 27 %. Changes in our estimates and assumptions relating to forfeitures may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. During 2019, 2020, and 2021, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $ 11.7 billion, $ 15.5 billion, and $ 18.2 billion. 60 Table of Contents Common Stock Available for Future Issuance As of December 31, 2021, common stock available for future issuance to employees is 97 million shares. Note 9 — INCOME TAXES In 2019, 2020, and 2021, we recorded net tax provisions of $ 2.4 billion, $ 2.9 billion, and $ 4.8 billion. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $ 881 million, $ 1.7 billion, and $ 3.7 billion for 2019, 2020, and 2021. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. The U.S. tax rules also provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included the election of full expensing of qualified property for 2019 and a partial election for 2020 and 2021. The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 U.S. Federal: Current $ 162 $ 1,835 $ 2,129 Deferred 914 ( 151 ) 155 Total 1,076 1,684 2,284 U.S. State: Current 276 626 763 Deferred 8 ( 190 ) ( 178 ) Total 284 436 585 International: Current 1,140 956 2,209 Deferred ( 126 ) ( 213 ) ( 287 ) Total 1,014 743 1,922 Provision for income taxes, net $ 2,374 $ 2,863 $ 4,791 U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 U.S. $ 13,285 $ 20,219 $ 35,879 International 691 3,959 2,272 Income before income taxes $ 13,976 $ 24,178 $ 38,151 61 Table of Contents The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate $ 2,935 $ 5,078 $ 8,012 Effect of: Tax impact of foreign earnings and losses 453 ( 538 ) ( 1,349 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 221 343 465 Tax credits ( 466 ) ( 639 ) ( 1,136 ) Stock-based compensation (1) ( 850 ) ( 1,107 ) ( 1,094 ) Foreign income deduction (2) ( 72 ) ( 372 ) ( 301 ) Other, net 153 98 194 Total $ 2,374 $ 2,863 $ 4,791 ___________________ (1) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Our tax provision includes $ 1.4 billion, $ 1.8 billion, and $ 1.9 billion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for 2019, 2020, and 2021. (2) U.S. companies are eligible for a deduction that lowers the effective tax rate on certain foreign income. This regime is referred to as the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction (“FDII”). Our provision for income taxes in 2020 was higher than in 2019 primarily due to an increase in pretax income. This was partially offset by the impact of developments in our ongoing global tax controversies on taxes related to our foreign earnings and losses, an increase in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and an increase in our foreign income deduction under FDII. In addition, our Luxembourg operations generated earnings in 2020 and utilized deferred tax assets previously subject to valuation allowances. Our provision for income taxes in 2021 was higher than in 2020 primarily due to an increase in pretax income. This was partially offset by an increase in U.S. federal research and development credits and the impact of the distribution of certain intangible assets from Luxembourg to the U.S. in Q4 2021, resulting in the utilization of $ 2.6 billion of Luxembourg deferred tax assets previously subject to a valuation allowance. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. 62 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2020 2021 Deferred tax assets (1): Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States 245 228 Loss carryforwards - Foreign 3,876 2,417 Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses 2,457 2,821 Stock-based compensation 2,033 2,738 Depreciation and amortization 1,886 941 Operating lease liabilities 10,183 15,399 Other items 559 603 Tax credits 207 626 Total gross deferred tax assets 21,446 25,773 Less valuation allowances (2) ( 5,803 ) ( 3,596 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances 15,643 22,177 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( 5,508 ) ( 3,562 ) Operating lease assets ( 9,539 ) ( 14,422 ) Assets held for investment ( 569 ) ( 4,019 ) Other items ( 893 ) ( 668 ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowances $ ( 866 ) $ ( 494 ) ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets are presented after tax effects and net of tax contingencies. (2) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions. Our valuation allowances primarily relate to foreign deferred tax assets, including substantially all of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2021. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes as of December 31, 2021 were approximately $ 9.2 billion before tax effects and certain of these amounts are subject to annual limitations under applicable tax law. If not utilized, a portion of these losses will begin to expire in 2022. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 3,414 $ 3,923 $ 2,820 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 216 88 403 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods ( 181 ) ( 465 ) ( 354 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 707 507 507 Settlements with tax authorities ( 207 ) ( 1,207 ) ( 60 ) Lapse of statute of limitations ( 26 ) ( 26 ) ( 74 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 3,923 $ 2,820 $ 3,242 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $ 3.2 billion of accrued tax contingencies of which $ 1.6 billion, if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. 63 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $ 83 million and $ 110 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021 was $ 4 million, $( 48 ) million, and $ 28 million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year 2016 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. We resolved the audits of tax years 2007 through 2015 with the IRS for amounts that were materially consistent with our accrual. In October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. On October 4, 2017, the European Commission announced its decision that determinations by the tax authorities in Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules on state aid. Based on that decision the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately € 250 million, plus interest, for the period May 2006 through June 2014, and ordered Luxembourg tax authorities to calculate the actual amount of additional taxes subject to recovery. Luxembourg computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’s decision, which we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. In December 2017, Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’s decision. In May 2018, we appealed. On May 12, 2021, the European Union General Court annulled the European Commission’s state aid decision. In July 2021, the European Commission appealed the decision to the European Court of Justice. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments by the relevant authorities in respect of these particular jurisdictions primarily for 2009 and thereafter. Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations may impact our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax controversies is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax controversies in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements could result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on prior years’ tax filings. The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes. Note 10 — SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” based on usage, which is generally reflected in the segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of technology infrastructure costs are allocated to the AWS segment based on usage. The majority of the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s business performance and manages its operations. North America The North America segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused online and physical stores. This segment includes export sales from these online stores. International The International segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused online stores. This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused online stores (including export sales from these online stores to customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North America-focused online stores. AWS The AWS segment consists of amounts earned from global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions. 64 Table of Contents Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 North America Net sales $ 170,773 $ 236,282 $ 279,833 Operating expenses 163,740 227,631 272,562 Operating income $ 7,033 $ 8,651 $ 7,271 International Net sales $ 74,723 $ 104,412 $ 127,787 Operating expenses 76,416 103,695 128,711 Operating income (loss) $ ( 1,693 ) $ 717 $ ( 924 ) AWS Net sales $ 35,026 $ 45,370 $ 62,202 Operating expenses 25,825 31,839 43,670 Operating income $ 9,201 $ 13,531 $ 18,532 Consolidated Net sales $ 280,522 $ 386,064 $ 469,822 Operating expenses 265,981 363,165 444,943 Operating income 14,541 22,899 24,879 Total non-operating income (expense) ( 565 ) 1,279 13,272 Provision for income taxes ( 2,374 ) ( 2,863 ) ( 4,791 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax ( 14 ) 16 4 Net income $ 11,588 $ 21,331 $ 33,364 Net sales by groups of similar products and services, which also have similar economic characteristics, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Net Sales: Online stores (1) $ 141,247 $ 197,346 $ 222,075 Physical stores (2) 17,192 16,227 17,075 Third-party seller services (3) 53,762 80,461 103,366 Subscription services (4) 19,210 25,207 31,768 Advertising services (5) 12,625 19,773 31,160 AWS 35,026 45,370 62,202 Other (6) 1,460 1,680 2,176 Consolidated $ 280,522 $ 386,064 $ 469,822 ___________________ (1) Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software. These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store. Sales to customers who order goods online for delivery or pickup at our physical stores are included in “Online stores.” (3) Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. (4) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS subscription services. (5) Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. (6) Includes sales related to various other service offerings. 65 Table of Contents Net sales are attributed to countries primarily based on country-focused online and physical stores or, for AWS purposes, the selling entity. Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 United States $ 193,636 $ 263,520 $ 314,006 Germany 22,232 29,565 37,326 United Kingdom 17,527 26,483 31,914 Japan 16,002 20,461 23,071 Rest of world 31,125 46,035 63,505 Consolidated $ 280,522 $ 386,064 $ 469,822 Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such as cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based on usage, with the majority allocated to the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 2020 2021 North America (1) $ 72,277 $ 108,405 $ 161,255 International (1) 30,709 42,212 57,983 AWS (2) 36,500 47,574 63,835 Corporate 85,762 123,004 137,476 Consolidated $ 225,248 $ 321,195 $ 420,549 ___________________ (1) North America and International segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment, operating leases, inventory, and accounts receivable. (2) AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts receivable. Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 2020 2021 North America $ 31,719 $ 54,912 $ 83,640 International 9,566 15,375 21,718 AWS 23,481 32,151 43,245 Corporate 7,939 10,676 11,678 Consolidated $ 72,705 $ 113,114 $ 160,281 Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 North America (1) $ 11,752 $ 29,889 $ 37,397 International (1) 3,298 8,072 10,259 AWS (2) 13,058 16,530 22,047 Corporate 1,910 3,485 2,622 Consolidated $ 30,018 $ 57,976 $ 72,325 ___________________ (1) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $ 3.8 billion, $ 5.6 billion, and $ 3.6 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021, and under build-to-suit lease arrangements of $ 1.3 billion, $ 2.7 billion, and $ 5.6 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021. (2) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $ 10.6 billion, $ 7.7 billion, and $ 3.5 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021, and under build-to-suit lease arrangements of $ 0 million , $ 130 million, and $ 51 million in 2019, 2020, and 2021. 66 Table of Contents U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $ 69.8 billion, $ 109.5 billion, and $ 155.0 billion, in 2019, 2020, and 2021, and non-U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $ 28.0 billion, $ 41.2 billion, and $ 61.3 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021. Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net and operating leases in any single country were less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net and operating leases. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, including corporate property and equipment, are allocated to all segments based on usage. Total depreciation and amortization expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 North America $ 5,106 $ 6,421 $ 9,234 International 1,886 2,215 3,022 AWS 8,158 7,603 10,653 Consolidated $ 15,150 $ 16,239 $ 22,909 67 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our stores to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring, Blink, and eero, and we develop and produce media content. We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes fast, free shipping on millions of items, access to award-winning movies and series, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview,” and in the risk factors below, global economic and geopolitical conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. Many of the risks discussed below also impact our customers, including third-party sellers, which could indirectly have a material adverse effect on us. Business and Industry Risks We Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors across geographies, including cross-border competition, and in different industries, including physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, e-commerce services, web and infrastructure computing services, electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, and transportation and logistics services. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors, and as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us. As a result of competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them, which investments are often significant. Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or services could result in the value of those investments being written down or written off. In addition, our sustainability initiatives may be unsuccessful for a variety of 6 Table of Contents reasons, including if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of new technologies or if we do not successfully plan or execute new strategies, which could harm our business or damage our reputation. Our International Operations Expose Us to a Number of Risks Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation (such as regulation of our product and service offerings and of competition); restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); nationalization; and restrictions on foreign ownership; • restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights; • business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, payments, advertising, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; • lower levels of use of the Internet; • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.; • lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; • different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties; • laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. The inability to hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may limit our international growth. The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the Internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) Internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services. For example, in order to meet local ownership, regulatory licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, we provide certain technology services in China through contractual relationships with third parties that hold PRC licenses to provide services. In India, the government restricts the ownership or control of Indian companies by foreign entities involved in online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to third-party sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold indirect minority interests in entities that are third-party sellers on the www.amazon.in marketplace. Although we believe these structures and activities comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India may from time to time consider and implement additional changes in their regulatory, licensing, or other requirements that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and it is possible that these governments will 7 Table of Contents ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or, in China, enforce contractual relationships we or our affiliates have in place. Violation of any existing or future PRC, Indian, or other laws or regulations or changes in the interpretations of those laws and regulations could result in our businesses in those countries being subject to fines and other financial penalties, having licenses revoked, or being forced to restructure our operations or shut down entirely. The Variability in Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including as a result of seasonality, promotions, product launches, or unforeseeable events, such as in response to global economic conditions such as recessionary fears or rising inflation, natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a result of climate change), or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur during our fourth quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce profitability. We regularly experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere in this   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Washington’s Puget Sound region and Arlington, Virginia. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer demand and spending, inflation, interest rates, regional labor market and global supply chain constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, variability in demand, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, global economic and geopolitical conditions and additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results or outcomes to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates made in accordance with GAAP that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting estimates addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product 20 Table of Contents vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance as of December 31, 2022, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $390 million. In addition, we enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to change due to economic, political, and other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use our deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752 Investing activities (58,154) (37,601) Financing activities 6,291 9,718 Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $96.0 billion and $70.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $22.7 billion and $18.3 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Our foreign currency balances include British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $46.3 billion and $46.8 billion in 2021 and 2022. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. The increase in operating cash flow in 2022, compared to the prior year, was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses, partially offset by changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, customer and vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 21 Table of Contents Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(58.2) billion and $(37.6) billion in 2021 and 2022, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $55.4 billion, and $58.3 billion in 2021 and 2022, which primarily reflect investments in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS business growth) and in additional capacity to support our fulfillment network. We expect to continue these investments over time, with increased spending on technology infrastructure. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $2.0 billion and $8.3 billion in 2021 and 2022. We funded the acquisition of MGM Holdings Inc. with cash on hand. We expect to fund the acquisitions of 1Life Healthcare, Inc. (One Medical) and iRobot Corporation with cash on hand. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $6.3 billion and $9.7 billion in 2021 and 2022. Cash inflows from financing activities resulted from proceeds from short-term debt, and other and long-term-debt of $27.0 billion and $62.7 billion in 2021 and 2022. Cash outflows from financing activities resulted from repurchases of common stock, payments of short-term debt, and other, long-term debt, finance leases, and financing obligations of $20.7 billion and $53.0 billion in 2021 and 2022. Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $7.1 billion and $675 million in 2021 and 2022. We had no borrowings outstanding under the two unsecured revolving credit facilities, $6.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs, and $1.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under the secured revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2022. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. As of December 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $4.7 billion. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Our U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of capitalized research and development expenses. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included a partial election for 2020 and 2021, and a full election for 2022. Effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes, which delays the deductibility of these expenses. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $3.7 billion and $6.0 billion for 2021 and 2022. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $260 million and $365 million. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” and “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, we have purchase obligations and open purchase orders, including for inventory and capital expenditures, that support normal operations and are primarily due in the next twelve months. These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Overview Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, increased interest rates, significant capital market volatility, the prolonged COVID-19 pandemic, global supply chain constraints, and global economic and geopolitical developments, have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations that are difficult to isolate and quantify. These factors contributed to increases in our operating costs during 2022, particularly across our North America and International segments, primarily due to a return to more normal, seasonal demand volumes in relation to our fulfillment network fixed costs, increased transportation and utility costs, and increased wage rates. In addition, rising fuel, utility, and food costs, rising interest rates, and recessionary fears may impact customer demand and our ability to forecast consumer spending patterns. We also expect the current macroeconomic environment and enterprise customer cost optimization efforts to impact our AWS revenue growth rates. We expect some or all of these factors to continue to impact our operations into Q1 2023. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Net Sales: North America $ 279,833 $ 315,880 International 127,787 118,007 AWS 62,202 80,096 Consolidated $ 469,822 $ 513,983 Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline): North America 18 % 13 % International 22 (8) AWS 37 29 Consolidated 22 9 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 18 % 13 % International 20 4 AWS 37 29 Consolidated 21 13 Net sales mix: North America 60 % 61 % International 27 23 AWS 13 16 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 9% in 2022, compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced net sales by $15.5 billion in 2022. For a discussion of the effect of foreign exchange rates on sales growth, see “Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased 13% in 2022, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers. 23 Table of Contents International sales decreased 8% in 2022, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced International net sales by $15.0 billion in 2022. AWS sales increased 29% in 2022, compared to the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes, primarily driven by long-term customer contracts. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Operating Income (Loss) North America $ 7,271 $ (2,847) International (924) (7,746) AWS 18,532 22,841 Consolidated $ 24,879 $ 12,248 Operating income was $24.9 billion and $12.2 billion for 2021 and 2022. We believe that operating income is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. The North America operating loss in 2022, as compared to the operating income in the prior year, is primarily due to increased fulfillment and shipping costs, due in part to increases in investments in our fulfillment network, transportation costs, and wage rates and incentives, increased technology and content costs, and growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers, and advertising sales. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted operating loss by $274 million in 2022. The increase in International operating loss in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased fulfillment and shipping costs, due in part to increases in investments in our fulfillment network, transportation costs, and wage rates and incentives, increased technology and content costs, and growth in certain operating expenses, partially offset by increased advertising sales and increased unit sales, including sales by third-party sellers. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted operating loss by $857 million in 2022. The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased sales and cost structure productivity, including a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment, partially offset by increased payroll and related expenses and spending on technology infrastructure, all of which were primarily driven by additional investments to support AWS business growth. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted operating income by $1.4 billion in 2022. 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Operating expenses: Cost of sales $ 272,344 $ 288,831 Fulfillment 75,111 84,299 Technology and content 56,052 73,213 Sales and marketing 32,551 42,238 General and administrative 8,823 11,891 Other operating expense (income), net 62 1,263 Total operating expenses $ 444,943 $ 501,735 Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline): Cost of sales 17 % 6 % Fulfillment 28 12 Technology and content 31 31 Sales and marketing 48 30 General and administrative 32 35 Other operating expense (income), net (183) 1,936 Percent of Net Sales: Cost of sales 58.0 % 56.2 % Fulfillment 16.0 16.4 Technology and content 11.9 14.2 Sales and marketing 6.9 8.2 General and administrative 1.9 2.3 Other operating expense (income), net 0.0 0.2 Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased shipping and product costs resulting from increased sales and increases in investments in our fulfillment network, transportation costs, and wage rates and incentives. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced cost of sales by $10.8 billion in 2022. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $76.7 billion and $83.5 billion in 2021 and 2022. We expect our cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an increasing rate, we use more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers. Costs to operate our AWS segment are primarily classified as “Technology and content” as we leverage a shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales to AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in “Fulfillment,” AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related 25 Table of Contents transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent to which third-party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, sales by our sellers have higher payment processing and related transaction costs as a percentage of net sales compared to our retail sales because payment processing costs are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased investments in our fulfillment network and variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, and increased wage rates and incentives. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced fulfillment costs by $2.5 billion in 2022. We seek to expand our fulfillment network to accommodate a greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services. We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and content so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated to segments based on usage. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives to introduce new products and service offerings, and an increase in spending on technology infrastructure, partially offset by a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense from our change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures — Use of Estimates” for additional information on the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and networking equipment. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third party customer referrals, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs. The increase in sales and marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities and higher marketing spend. While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in sales and marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2022, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional fees. 26 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $62 million and $1.3 billion during 2021 and 2022, and was primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets and, for 2022, $1.1 billion of impairments of property and equipment and operating leases. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $448 million and $989 million during 2021 and 2022, primarily due to an increase in prevailing rates. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds based on the prevailing rates, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Interest expense was $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion in 2021 and 2022 and was primarily related to debt and finance leases. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Our long-term lease liabilities were $67.7 billion and $73.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Our long-term debt was $48.7 billion and $67.1 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $14.6 billion and $(16.8) billion during 2021 and 2022. The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and foreign currency. Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 and 2022 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of $11.8 billion and $(12.7) billion from our equity investment in Rivian. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, developments in tax controversies, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in relevant jurisdictions. We recorded a provision (benefit) for income taxes of $4.8 billion and $(3.2) billion in 2021 and 2022. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. 27 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives.” The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2021 and 2022 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (55,396) (58,321) Free cash flow $ (9,069) $ (11,569) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (58,154) $ (37,601) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 6,291 $ 9,718 Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by “Principal repayments of finance leases” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” Principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2021 and 2022 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (55,396) (58,321) Free cash flow (9,069) (11,569) Principal repayments of finance leases (11,163) (7,941) Principal repayments of financing obligations (162) (248) Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations $ (20,394) $ (19,758) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (58,154) $ (37,601) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 6,291 $ 9,718 28 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications,” principal repayments of all other finance lease liabilities, which is included in “Principal repayments of finance leases,” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2021 and 2022 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46,327 $ 46,752 Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives (55,396) (58,321) Free cash flow (9,069) (11,569) Equipment acquired under finance leases (1) (4,422) (299) Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2) (687) (670) Principal repayments of financing obligations (162) (248) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing obligations $ (14,340) $ (12,786) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (58,154) $ (37,601) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 6,291 $ 9,718 ___________________ (1) For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, this amount relates to equipment included in “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications” of $7,061 million and $675 million. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, this amount relates to property included in “Principal repayments of finance leases” of $11,163 million and $7,941 million. All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 Year Ended December 31, 2022 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) At Prior Year Rates (2) Net sales $ 469,822 $ (3,804) $ 466,018 $ 513,983 $ 15,495 $ 529,478 Operating expenses 444,943 (3,653) 441,290 501,735 16,356 518,091 Operating income 24,879 (151) 24,728 12,248 (861) 11,387 ___________________ (1) Represents the change in reported amounts resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. (2) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results. 29 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on February 2, 2023, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of February 2, 2023, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as uncertainty regarding the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic and geopolitical conditions and customer demand and spending (including the impact of recessionary fears), inflation, interest rates, regional labor market and global supply chain constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our debt. Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our long-term debt, which pays interest at a fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2022 (in millions, except percentages): 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value as of December 31, 2022 Money market funds $ 27,899 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 27,899 $ 27,899 Weighted average interest rate 4.18 % — % — % — % — % — % 4.18 % Corporate debt securities 17,500 2,486 2,332 748 9 — 23,075 22,627 Weighted average interest rate 4.06 % 0.97 % 1.23 % 1.45 % 2.33 % — % 3.35 % U.S. government and agency securities 819 358 554 396 80 75 2,282 2,146 Weighted average interest rate 1.05 % 0.98 % 0.81 % 0.83 % 1.24 % 1.83 % 0.98 % Asset-backed securities 1,059 872 413 146 128 72 2,690 2,572 Weighted average interest rate 0.99 % 1.30 % 1.37 % 1.39 % 1.41 % 1.06 % 1.19 % Foreign government and agency securities 519 19 — — — — 538 535 Weighted average interest rate 4.24 % 0.60 % — % — % — % — % 4.11 % Other fixed income securities 138 61 48 — — — 247 237 Weighted average interest rate 0.40 % 0.56 % 1.15 % — % — % — % 0.58 % $ 47,934 $ 3,796 $ 3,347 $ 1,290 $ 217 $ 147 $ 56,731 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities $ 56,016 As of December 31, 2022, we had long-term debt with a face value of $70.5 billion, including the current portion, primarily consisting of fixed rate unsecured senior notes. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. 31 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk During 2022, net sales from our International segment accounted for 23% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included in our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net sales decreased by $15.0 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds as of December 31, 2022, of $18.3 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in declines of $915 million, $1.8 billion, and $3.7 billion. We also have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany balances as of December 31, 2022, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange rates would result in losses of $275 million, $555 million, and $1.1 billion, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates. Equity Investment Risk As of December 31, 2022, our recorded value in equity and equity warrant investments in public and private companies was $7.2 billion. Our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies, which primarily relate to Rivian, represent $5.0 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2022, and are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. We record our equity warrant investments in private companies at fair value and adjust our equity investments in private companies for observable price changes or impairments. Valuations of private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. The current global economic conditions provide additional uncertainty. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures” for additional information. 32 Table of Contents 

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP , Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 34 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 36 Consolidated Statements of Operations 37 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 40 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41 33 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 2, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. 34 Table of Contents Uncertain Tax Positions Description of the Matter As discussed in Notes 1 and 9 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions and during the ordinary course of business, there are many tax positions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The Company uses significant judgment in (1) determining whether a tax position’s technical merits are more likely than not to be sustained and (2) measuring the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. As of December 31, 2022, the Company reported accrued liabilities of $4.0 billion for various tax contingencies. Auditing the recognition and measurement of the Company’s tax contingencies was challenging because the evaluation of whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained and the measurement of the benefit of various tax positions can be complex and involves significant auditor judgment. Management’s evaluation of tax positions is based on interpretations of tax laws and legal rulings, and may be impacted by regulatory changes and judicial and examination activity. How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit We tested controls over the Company’s process to assess the technical merits of its tax contingencies, including controls over: the assessment as to whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained; the measurement of the benefit of its tax positions, both initially and on an ongoing basis; and the development of the related disclosures. We involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and research and development tax professionals in assessing the technical merits of certain of the Company’s tax positions. Depending on the nature of the specific tax position and, as applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the Company’s analysis including the Company’s correspondence with such tax authorities and evaluating the underlying facts upon which the tax positions are based. We used our knowledge of and experience with international, transfer pricing, and other income tax laws of the relevant taxing jurisdictions to evaluate the Company’s accounting for its tax contingencies. We evaluated developments in the applicable regulatory environments to assess potential effects on the Company’s positions, including recent decisions in relevant court cases. We analyzed the appropriateness of the Company’s assumptions and the accuracy of the Company’s calculations and data used to determine the amount of tax benefits to recognize. We evaluated the Company’s income tax disclosures in relation to these matters. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1996. Seattle, Washington February 2, 2023 35 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 36,410 $ 42,377 $ 36,477 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) 21,331 33,364 ( 2,722 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized content costs, operating lease assets, and other 25,180 34,433 41,921 Stock-based compensation 9,208 12,757 19,621 Other expense (income), net ( 2,582 ) ( 14,306 ) 16,966 Deferred income taxes ( 554 ) ( 310 ) ( 8,148 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( 2,849 ) ( 9,487 ) ( 2,592 ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( 8,169 ) ( 18,163 ) ( 21,897 ) Accounts payable 17,480 3,602 2,945 Accrued expenses and other 5,754 2,123 ( 1,558 ) Unearned revenue 1,265 2,314 2,216 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 66,064 46,327 46,752 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of property and equipment ( 40,140 ) ( 61,053 ) ( 63,645 ) Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives 5,096 5,657 5,324 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other ( 2,325 ) ( 1,985 ) ( 8,316 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 50,237 59,384 31,601 Purchases of marketable securities ( 72,479 ) ( 60,157 ) ( 2,565 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ( 59,611 ) ( 58,154 ) ( 37,601 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Common stock repurchased — — ( 6,000 ) Proceeds from short-term debt, and other 6,796 7,956 41,553 Repayments of short-term debt, and other ( 6,177 ) ( 7,753 ) ( 37,554 ) Proceeds from long-term debt 10,525 19,003 21,166 Repayments of long-term debt ( 1,553 ) ( 1,590 ) ( 1,258 ) Principal repayments of finance leases ( 10,642 ) ( 11,163 ) ( 7,941 ) Principal repayments of financing obligations ( 53 ) ( 162 ) ( 248 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ( 1,104 ) 6,291 9,718 Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 618 ( 364 ) ( 1,093 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 5,967 ( 5,900 ) 17,776 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD $ 42,377 $ 36,477 $ 54,253 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Net product sales $ 215,915 $ 241,787 $ 242,901 Net service sales 170,149 228,035 271,082 Total net sales 386,064 469,822 513,983 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 233,307 272,344 288,831 Fulfillment 58,517 75,111 84,299 Technology and content 42,740 56,052 73,213 Sales and marketing 22,008 32,551 42,238 General and administrative 6,668 8,823 11,891 Other operating expense (income), net ( 75 ) 62 1,263 Total operating expenses 363,165 444,943 501,735 Operating income 22,899 24,879 12,248 Interest income 555 448 989 Interest expense ( 1,647 ) ( 1,809 ) ( 2,367 ) Other income (expense), net 2,371 14,633 ( 16,806 ) Total non-operating income (expense) 1,279 13,272 ( 18,184 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 24,178 38,151 ( 5,936 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( 2,863 ) ( 4,791 ) 3,217 Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 16 4 ( 3 ) Net income (loss) $ 21,331 $ 33,364 $ ( 2,722 ) Basic earnings per share $ 2.13 $ 3.30 $ ( 0.27 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 2.09 $ 3.24 $ ( 0.27 ) Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 10,005 10,117 10,189 Diluted 10,198 10,296 10,189 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Net income (loss) $ 21,331 $ 33,364 $ ( 2,722 ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $( 36 ), $ 47 , and $ 100 561 ( 819 ) ( 2,586 ) Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $( 83 ), $ 72 , and $ 159 273 ( 343 ) ( 823 ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in “Other income (expense), net,” net of tax of $ 8 , $ 13 , and $ 0 ( 28 ) ( 34 ) 298 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities 245 ( 377 ) ( 525 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) 806 ( 1,196 ) ( 3,111 ) Comprehensive income (loss) $ 22,137 $ 32,168 $ ( 5,833 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2021 2022 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 36,220 $ 53,888 Marketable securities 59,829 16,138 Inventories 32,640 34,405 Accounts receivable, net and other 32,891 42,360 Total current assets 161,580 146,791 Property and equipment, net 160,281 186,715 Operating leases 56,082 66,123 Goodwill 15,371 20,288 Other assets 27,235 42,758 Total assets $ 420,549 $ 462,675 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 78,664 $ 79,600 Accrued expenses and other 51,775 62,566 Unearned revenue 11,827 13,227 Total current liabilities 142,266 155,393 Long-term lease liabilities 67,651 72,968 Long-term debt 48,744 67,150 Other long-term liabilities 23,643 21,121 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock ($ 0.01 par value; 500 shares authorized; no shares issued or outstanding) — — Common stock ($ 0.01 par value; 100,000 shares authorized; 10,644 and 10,757 shares issued; 10,175 and 10,242 shares outstanding) 106 108 Treasury stock, at cost ( 1,837 ) ( 7,837 ) Additional paid-in capital 55,437 75,066 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( 1,376 ) ( 4,487 ) Retained earnings 85,915 83,193 Total stockholders’ equity 138,245 146,043 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 420,549 $ 462,675 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance as of January 1, 2020 9,950 $ 104 $ ( 1,837 ) $ 33,559 $ ( 986 ) $ 31,220 $ 62,060 Net income — — — — — 21,331 21,331 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 806 — 806 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock 116 1 — 9,206 — — 9,207 Balance as of December 31, 2020 10,066 105 ( 1,837 ) 42,765 ( 180 ) 52,551 93,404 Net income — — — — — 33,364 33,364 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( 1,196 ) — ( 1,196 ) Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock 109 1 — 12,672 — — 12,673 Balance as of December 31, 2021 10,175 106 ( 1,837 ) 55,437 ( 1,376 ) 85,915 138,245 Net loss — — — — — ( 2,722 ) ( 2,722 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( 3,111 ) — ( 3,111 ) Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock 113 2 — 19,629 — — 19,631 Common stock repurchased ( 46 ) — ( 6,000 ) — — — ( 6,000 ) Balance as of December 31, 2022 10,242 $ 108 $ ( 7,837 ) $ 75,066 $ ( 4,487 ) $ 83,193 $ 146,043 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 — DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS, ACCOUNTING POLICIES, AND SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES Description of Business We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees. We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. In addition, we provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note 10 — Segment Information.” Common Stock Split On May 27, 2022, we effected a 20 -for-1 stock split of our common stock and proportionately increased the number of authorized shares of common stock. All share, restricted stock unit (“RSU”), and per share or per RSU information throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split. The shares of common stock retain a par value of $ 0.01 per share. Accordingly, an amount equal to the par value of the increased shares resulting from the stock split was reclassified from “Additional paid-in capital” to “Common stock.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. “Other operating expense (income), net” was reclassified into “Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized content costs, operating lease assets, and other” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc. and its consolidated entities (collectively, the “Company”), consisting of its wholly-owned subsidiaries and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and certain entities that support our seller lending financing activities. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, useful lives of equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, inventory valuation, collectability of receivables, impairment of property and equipment and operating leases, valuation and impairment of investments, self-insurance liabilities, and viewing patterns of capitalized video content. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. We review the useful lives of equipment on an ongoing basis, and effective January 1, 2022 we changed our estimate of the useful lives for our servers from four years to five years and for our networking equipment from five years to six years . The longer useful lives are due to continuous improvements in our hardware, software, and data center designs. The effect of this change in estimate for the year ended December 31, 2022, based on servers and networking equipment that were included in “Property and equipment, net” as of December 31, 2021 and those acquired during the year ended December 31, 2022, was a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense of $ 3.6 billion and a benefit to net loss of $ 2.8 billion, or $ 0.28 per basic share and $ 0.28 per diluted share. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded approximately $ 1.1 billion, of which $ 720 million was recorded in the fourth quarter, of impairments of property and equipment and operating leases primarily related to physical stores. These charges were recorded in “Other operating expense (income), net” on our consolidated statements of operations and primarily impacted our North America segment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded expenses of approximately 41 Table of Contents $ 480 million primarily in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations relating to terminating contracts for certain leases not yet commenced as well as other purchase commitments, which primarily impacted our North America segment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded approximately $ 720 million, of which $ 640 million was recorded in the fourth quarter, of estimated severance costs primarily related to planned role eliminations. These charges were recorded primarily in “Technology and content,” “Fulfillment,” and “General and administrative” on our consolidated statements of operations and primarily impacted our North America segment. Supplemental Cash Flow Information The following table shows supplemental cash flow information (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest on debt $ 916 $ 1,098 $ 1,561 Cash paid for operating leases $ 4,475 $ 6,722 $ 8,633 Cash paid for interest on finance leases $ 612 $ 521 $ 374 Cash paid for interest on financing obligations $ 102 $ 153 $ 207 Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds $ 1,713 $ 3,688 $ 6,035 Assets acquired under operating leases $ 16,217 $ 25,369 $ 18,800 Property and equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications $ 11,588 $ 7,061 $ 675 Property and equipment recognized during the construction period of build-to-suit lease arrangements $ 2,267 $ 5,846 $ 3,187 Property and equipment derecognized after the construction period of build-to-suit lease arrangements, with the associated leases recognized as operating $ — $ 230 $ 5,158 Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 10,005 10,117 10,189 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards 193 179 — Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 10,198 10,296 10,189 Revenue Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin. A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees we earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery of the related products to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an Amazon delivery, to the customer. 42 Table of Contents Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period. Advertising services - We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. Revenue is recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. Other - Other revenue includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video content and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Revenue is recognized when content is licensed or distributed and as or when services are performed. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $ 859 million, $ 1.0 billion, and $ 1.3 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Additions to the allowance were $ 3.5 billion, $ 5.1 billion, and $ 5.5 billion and deductions from the allowance were $ 3.6 billion, $ 4.9 billion, and $ 5.2 billion in 2020, 2021, and 2022. Included in “Inventories” on our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $ 852 million, $ 882 million, and $ 948 million as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. Cost of Sales Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements with our vendors to receive consideration primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. We generally consider these amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend on reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers, including facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization, and rent; costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. 43 Table of Contents Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services. Technology and content costs are generally expensed as incurred. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred and were $ 10.9 billion, $ 16.9 billion, and $ 20.6 billion in 2020, 2021, and 2022. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for corporate functions, including payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and professional fees. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all equity-classified stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience by grant year and employee level. Additionally, stock-based compensation includes stock appreciation rights that are expected to settle in cash. These liability-classified awards are remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement or expiration. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of the amortization of intangible assets and, for 2020, a benefit from accelerated vesting of warrants to acquire equity of a vendor partially offset by a lease impairment and, for 2022, $ 1.1 billion of impairments of property and equipment and operating leases. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Marketable equity securities valuation gains (losses) $ 525 $ 11,526 $ ( 13,870 ) Equity warrant valuation gains (losses) 1,527 1,315 ( 2,132 ) Upward adjustments relating to equity investments in private companies 342 1,866 76 Foreign currency gains (losses) 35 ( 55 ) ( 340 ) Other, net ( 58 ) ( 19 ) ( 540 ) Total other income (expense), net 2,371 14,633 ( 16,806 ) 44 Table of Contents Included in other income (expense), net in 2021 and 2022 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of $ 11.8 billion and $( 12.7 ) billion from our equity investment in Rivian Automotive, Inc. (“Rivian”). Our investment in Rivian’s preferred stock was accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, prior to Rivian’s initial public offering in November 2021, which resulted in the conversion of our preferred stock to Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2022, we held 158 million shares of Rivian’s Class A common stock, representing an approximate 17 % ownership interest, and an approximate 16 % voting interest. We determined that we have the ability to exercise significant influence over Rivian through our equity investment, our commercial arrangement for the purchase of electric vehicles, and one of our employees serving on Rivian’s board of directors. We elected the fair value option to account for our equity investment in Rivian, which is included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets. Required summarized financial information of Rivian as disclosed in its most recent SEC filings is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2021 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 Revenues $ — $ 55 $ 995 Gross profit — ( 465 ) ( 2,123 ) Loss from operations ( 1,021 ) ( 4,220 ) ( 5,061 ) Net loss ( 1,018 ) ( 4,688 ) ( 5,029 ) December 31, 2021 September 30, 2022 Total current assets $ 18,559 $ 14,424 Total assets 22,294 19,023 Total current liabilities 1,313 2,109 Total liabilities 2,780 3,686 Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. 45 Table of Contents Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 — Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds and certain marketable equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold significant amounts of marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. We hold equity warrants giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, these warrants had a fair value of $ 3.4 billion and $ 2.1 billion, and are recorded within “ Other assets ” on our consolidated balance sheets with gains and losses recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. These warrants are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. The inventory valuation allowance, representing a write-down of inventory, was $ 2.6 billion and $ 2.8 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. We have certain non-cancellable purchase commitments arising from these agreements. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, vendors, and sellers. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, customer receivables, net, were $ 20.2 billion and $ 26.6 billion, vendor receivables, net, were $ 5.3 billion and $ 6.9 billion, and seller receivables, net, were $ 1.0 billion and $ 1.3 billion. Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory. We estimate losses on receivables based on expected losses, including our historical experience of actual losses. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ 1.1 billion, $ 1.1 billion, and $ 1.4 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Additions to the allowance were $ 1.4 billion, $ 1.0 billion, and $ 1.6 billion, and deductions to the allowance were $ 1.0 billion, $ 1.1 billion, and $ 1.3 billion in 2020, 2021, and 2022. Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related to design or maintenance, are expensed as incurred. 46 Table of Contents Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction to our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period and finance lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, four years prior to January 1, 2022 and five years subsequent to January 1, 2022 for our servers, five years prior to January 1, 2022 and six years subsequent to January 1, 2022 for our networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to ten years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation and amortization expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases We categorize leases with contractual terms longer than twelve months as either operating or finance. Finance leases are generally those leases that allow us to substantially utilize or pay for the entire asset over its estimated life. Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in “Property and equipment, net.” All other leases are categorized as operating leases. Our leases generally have terms that range from one to ten years for equipment and one to twenty years for property. Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. For leases of property, we account for these other services as a component of the lease. For substantially all other leases, the services are accounted for separately and we allocate payments to the lease and other services components based on estimated stand-alone prices. Lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives using a discount rate based on similarly secured borrowings available to us. Lease assets are recognized based on the initial present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases or lease prepayments reclassified from “Other assets” upon lease commencement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the lease term. When we have the option to extend the lease term, terminate the lease before the contractual expiration date, or purchase the leased asset, and it is reasonably certain that we will exercise the option, we consider the option in determining the classification and measurement of the lease. Our leases may include variable payments based on measures that include changes in price indices, market interest rates, or the level of sales at a physical store, which are expensed as incurred. Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized on a straight-line basis within operating expenses over the term of the lease. Finance lease assets are amortized within operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or, in the instance where title does not transfer at the end of the lease term, the lease term. The interest component of a finance lease is included in interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are amortized over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Financing Obligations We record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have control over the building during the construction period. If we continue to control the building after the construction period, the arrangement is classified as a financing obligation instead of a lease. The building is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life or the term of the obligation. If we do not control the building after the construction period ends, the assets and liabilities for construction costs are derecognized, and we classify the lease as operating. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value and if so, we perform a quantitative test. We compare the carrying value of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset to its estimated fair value and if the fair value is determined to be less than the carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss for the difference. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash 47 Table of Contents flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual impairment test of goodwill for all reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of April 1, 2022, resulting in no impairments. The fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value. There were no events that caused us to update our annual impairment test. See “Note 5 — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to video and music content, net of accumulated amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; equity warrant assets and certain equity investments; and satellite network launch services deposits. We recognize certain transactions with governments when there is reasonable assurance that incentives included in the agreements, such as cash or certain tax credits, will be received and we are able to comply with any related conditions. These incentives are recorded as reductions to the cost of related assets or expenses. Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific video or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We reduce the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to “Cost of sales” on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage or viewing patterns, or on a straight-line basis. If the licensing fee is not determinable or reasonably estimable, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the estimated viewing patterns associated with the content. The weighted average remaining life of our capitalized video content is 2.6 years. We review usage and viewing patterns impacting the amortization of capitalized video content on an ongoing basis and reflect any changes prospectively. Changes in historical and anticipated viewing patterns are lengthening the weighted average life of our capitalized video content. We anticipate the changes in viewing patterns will positively impact 2023 operating income by approximately $ 1.0 billion, generally ratably throughout the year. Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships. These film groups are evaluated for impairment whenever an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the fair value is less than the carrying value. The total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2021 and 2022 were $ 10.7 billion and $ 16.7 billion. Total video and music expense was $ 13.0 billion and $ 16.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022. Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable fixed income securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are due to expected credit losses, as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Expected credit losses are recorded as an allowance through “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments in private companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, and are classified as “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets with adjustments recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we perform a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether the investment is impaired. Our assessment includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. If the investment is impaired, we write it down to its estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, these investments had a carrying value of $ 603 million and $ 715 million. Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, or at fair value if we elect the fair value option, if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method 48 Table of Contents investments are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, related gains or losses, and impairments, if any, are recognized in “Equity-method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are other-than-temporary and if so, we write down the investment to its estimated fair value. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values, including investments for which we have elected the fair value option, are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, including lease assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and asset retirement obligations, tax-related liabilities, current debt, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, self-insurance liabilities, customer liabilities, marketing liabilities, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $ 7.4 billion and $ 7.7 billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $ 5.2 billion and $ 5.4 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns. Self-Insurance Liabilities Although we maintain certain high-deductible, third-party insurance coverage for catastrophic losses, we effectively self-insure for exposure primarily related to workers’ compensation, employee health care benefits, general and product liability, and automobile liability, including liability resulting from third-party transportation service providers. We estimate self-insurance liabilities by considering historical claims experience, frequency and costs of claims, projected claims development, inflation, and other actuarial assumptions. Changes in the number or costs of claims, healthcare costs, judgment and settlement amounts, associated legal expenses, and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, our total self-insurance liabilities were $ 2.2 billion and $ 4.0 billion and are included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we increased our reserves for general, product, and automobile liabilities by $ 1.3 billion primarily driven by changes in our estimates about the costs of asserted and unasserted claims, which was primarily recorded in “Cost of sales” on our consolidated statements of operations and impacted our North America segment. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2021 was $ 14.0 billion, of which $ 11.3 billion was recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2022 and our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2022 was $ 16.1 billion. Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $ 2.2 billion and $ 2.9 billion of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $ 110.4 billion as of December 31, 2022. The weighted average remaining life of our long-term contracts is 3.7 years. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. 49 Table of Contents Other Long-Term Liabilities Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to financing obligations, asset retirement obligations, unearned revenue, tax contingencies, digital video and music content, and deferred tax liabilities. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains (losses) of $( 118 ) million, $ 19 million, and $ 386 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022. Note 2 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Marketable Securities As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, other investment grade securities, and marketable equity securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2021 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,942 $ — $ — $ 10,942 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 20,312 — — 20,312 Equity securities (1) 1,646 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 181 — — 181 U.S. government and agency securities 4,316 9 ( 25 ) 4,300 Corporate debt securities 35,810 75 ( 121 ) 35,764 Asset-backed securities 6,763 7 ( 32 ) 6,738 Other fixed income securities 688 2 ( 4 ) 686 Equity securities (1)(3) 15,740 $ 79,012 $ 93 $ ( 182 ) $ 96,309 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 260 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 96,049 50 Table of Contents December 31, 2022 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 10,666 $ — $ — $ 10,666 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 27,899 — — 27,899 Equity securities (1)(3) 3,709 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 537 — ( 2 ) 535 U.S. government and agency securities 2,301 — ( 155 ) 2,146 Corporate debt securities 23,111 — ( 484 ) 22,627 Asset-backed securities 2,721 — ( 149 ) 2,572 Other fixed income securities 249 — ( 12 ) 237 $ 67,484 $ — $ ( 802 ) $ 70,391 Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (2) ( 365 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 70,026 ___________________ (1) The related unrealized gain (loss) recorded in “Other income (expense), net” was $ 448 million, $ 11.6 billion, and $( 13.6 ) billion for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. (2) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable fixed income securities primarily as collateral for real estate, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable fixed income securities with use restrictions of less than twelve months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.” (3) Our equity investment in Rivian had a fair value of $ 15.6 billion and $ 2.9 billion as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The investment was subject to regulatory sales restrictions resulting in a discount for lack of marketability of approximately $ 800 million as of December 31, 2021, which expired in Q1 2022. The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of marketable fixed income securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Realized gains $ 92 $ 85 $ 43 Realized losses 56 38 341 The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 46,854 $ 46,782 Due after one year through five years 7,622 7,047 Due after five years through ten years 602 565 Due after ten years 1,740 1,622 Total $ 56,818 $ 56,016 Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. 51 Table of Contents Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Reconciliation The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions): December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 Cash and cash equivalents $ 36,220 $ 53,888 Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other 242 358 Restricted cash included in other assets 15 7 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows $ 36,477 $ 54,253 Note 3 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2021 2022 Gross property and equipment (1): Land and buildings $ 81,104 $ 91,650 Equipment 128,683 157,458 Other assets 4,118 4,602 Construction in progress 24,895 30,020 Gross property and equipment 238,800 283,730 Total accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 78,519 97,015 Total property and equipment, net $ 160,281 $ 186,715 __________________ (1) Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $ 16.2 billion, $ 22.9 billion, and $ 24.9 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under finance leases of $ 8.5 billion, $ 9.9 billion, and $ 6.1 billion for 2020, 2021, and 2022. 52 Table of Contents Note 4 — LEASES We have entered into non-cancellable operating and finance leases for fulfillment, delivery, office, data center, physical store, and sortation facilities as well as server and networking equipment, vehicles, and aircraft. Gross assets acquired under finance leases, inclusive of those where title transfers at the end of the lease, are recorded in “ Property and equipment, net ” and were $ 72.2 billion and $ 68.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $ 43.4 billion and $ 45.2 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. Lease cost recognized in our consolidated statements of operations is summarized as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Operating lease cost $ 5,019 $ 7,199 $ 8,847 Finance lease cost: Amortization of lease assets 8,452 9,857 6,097 Interest on lease liabilities 617 473 361 Finance lease cost 9,069 10,330 6,458 Variable lease cost 1,238 1,556 1,852 Total lease cost $ 15,326 $ 19,085 $ 17,157 Other information about lease amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements is as follows: December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 Weighted-average remaining lease term – operating leases 11.3 years 11.6 years Weighted-average remaining lease term – finance leases 8.1 years 10.3 years Weighted-average discount rate – operating leases 2.2 % 2.8 % Weighted-average discount rate – finance leases 2.0 % 2.3 % Our lease liabilities were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2021 Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 66,269 $ 25,866 $ 92,135 Less: imputed interest ( 7,939 ) ( 2,113 ) ( 10,052 ) Present value of lease liabilities 58,330 23,753 82,083 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 6,349 ) ( 8,083 ) ( 14,432 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 51,981 $ 15,670 $ 67,651 December 31, 2022 Operating Leases Finance   Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ 81,273 $ 18,019 $ 99,292 Less: imputed interest ( 12,233 ) ( 2,236 ) ( 14,469 ) Present value of lease liabilities 69,040 15,783 84,823 Less: current portion of lease liabilities ( 7,458 ) ( 4,397 ) ( 11,855 ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ 61,582 $ 11,386 $ 72,968 53 Table of Contents Note 5 — ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2020 Acquisition Activity During 2020, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 1.2 billion, net of cash acquired, of which $ 1.1 billion was capitalized to in-process research and development intangible assets (“IPR&D”). 2021 Acquisition Activity During 2021, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 496 million, net of cash acquired. 2022 Acquisition Activity On March 17, 2022, we acquired MGM Holdings Inc., for cash consideration of approximately $ 6.1 billion, net of cash acquired, to provide more digital media content options for customers. We also assumed $ 2.5 billion of debt, which we repaid immediately after closing. The acquired assets primarily consist of $ 3.4 billion of video content and $ 4.9 billion of goodwill. During 2022, we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $ 141 million, net of cash acquired. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of the 2022 acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. Goodwill The goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2021 and 2022 by segment (in millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January 1, 2021 $ 12,527 $ 1,288 $ 1,202 $ 15,017 New acquisitions 230 60 76 366 Other adjustments (1) 1 ( 21 ) 8 ( 12 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2021 12,758 1,327 1,286 15,371 New acquisitions 3,943 1,054 — 4,997 Other adjustments (1) ( 80 ) 30 ( 30 ) ( 80 ) Goodwill - December 31, 2022 $ 16,621 $ 2,411 $ 1,256 $ 20,288 ___________________ (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange rates. 54 Table of Contents Intangible Assets Acquired identifiable intangible assets are valued primarily by using discounted cash flows. These assets are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and consist of the following (in millions): December 31, 2021 2022 Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Finite-lived intangible assets (2): Marketing-related $ 2,286 $ ( 548 ) $ 1,738 $ 2,407 $ ( 601 ) $ 1,806 18.6 Contract-based 2,327 ( 565 ) 1,762 3,661 ( 813 ) 2,848 12.8 Technology- and content-based 976 ( 610 ) 366 883 ( 643 ) 240 3.2 Customer-related 197 ( 103 ) 94 184 ( 128 ) 56 2.2 Total finite-lived intangible assets $ 5,786 $ ( 1,826 ) $ 3,960 $ 7,135 $ ( 2,185 ) $ 4,950 14.4 IPR&D and other (3) $ 1,147 $ 1,147 $ 1,147 $ 1,147 Total acquired intangibles $ 6,933 $ ( 1,826 ) $ 5,107 $ 8,282 $ ( 2,185 ) $ 6,097 ___________________ (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Finite-lived intangible assets, excluding acquired video content, have estimated useful lives of between one and twenty-five years , and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis. (3) Intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are in-process and used in research and development activities are considered indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the research and development efforts. Once the research and development efforts are completed, we determine the useful life and begin amortizing the assets. Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangibles was $ 509 million, $ 512 million, and $ 604 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022. Expected future amortization expense of acquired finite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2022 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 $ 530 2024 456 2025 371 2026 324 2027 314 Thereafter 2,955 $ 4,950 55 Table of Contents Note 6 — DEBT As of December 31, 2022, we had $ 69.5 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”), including $ 12.8 billion issued in April 2022 and $ 8.3 billion issued in December 2022 for general corporate purposes, and $ 1.0 billion of borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility. Our total long-term debt obligations are as follows (in millions): Maturities (1) Stated Interest Rates Effective Interest Rates December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 2012 Notes issuance of $ 3.0 billion 2022 2.50 % 2.66 % 1,250 — 2014 Notes issuance of $ 6.0 billion 2024 - 2044 3.80 % - 4.95 % 3.90 % - 5.12 % 4,000 4,000 2017 Notes issuance of $ 17.0 billion 2023 - 2057 2.40 % - 5.20 % 2.56 % - 4.33 % 16,000 16,000 2020 Notes issuance of $ 10.0 billion 2023 - 2060 0.40 % - 2.70 % 0.56 % - 2.77 % 10,000 10,000 2021 Notes issuance of $ 18.5 billion 2023 - 2061 0.25 % - 3.25 % 0.35 % - 3.31 % 18,500 18,500 April 2022 Notes issuance of $ 12.8 billion 2024 - 2062 2.73 % - 4.10 % 2.83 % - 4.15 % — 12,750 December 2022 Notes issuance of $ 8.3 billion 2024 - 2032 4.55 % - 4.70 % 4.61 % - 4.83 % — 8,250 Credit Facility 803 1,042 Total face value of long-term debt 50,553 70,542 Unamortized discount and issuance costs, net ( 318 ) ( 393 ) Less: current portion of long-term debt ( 1,491 ) ( 2,999 ) Long-term debt $ 48,744 $ 67,150 ___________________ (1) The weighted-average remaining lives of the 2014, 2017, 2020, 2021, April 2022, and December 2022 Notes were 12.6 , 14.2 , 16.7 , 13.3 , 13.3 , and 5.9 years as of December 31, 2022. The combined weighted-average remaining life of the Notes was 13.1 years as of December 31, 2022. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $ 53.3 billion and $ 61.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates. We have a $ 1.5 billion secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables, which we increased from $ 1.0 billion to $ 1.5 billion in August 2022 and we may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is available until August 2025, bears interest based on the daily Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus 1.25 %, and has a commitment fee of up to 0.45 % on the undrawn portion. There were $ 803 million and $ 1.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which had an interest rate of 1.5 % and 5.6 %, respectively. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, we have pledged $ 918 million and $ 1.2 billion of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. As of December 31, 2022, future principal payments for our total long-term debt were as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 $ 3,000 2024 8,500 2025 5,249 2026 3,543 2027 8,750 Thereafter 41,500 $ 70,542 We have U.S. Dollar and Euro commercial paper programs (the “Commercial Paper Programs”) under which we may from time to time issue unsecured commercial paper up to a total of $ 20.0 billion (including up to € 3.0 billion) at the date of issue, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. In March 2022, we increased the size of the Commercial Paper Programs from $ 10.0 billion to $ 20.0 billion. There were $ 725 million and $ 6.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Programs as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which were 56 Table of Contents included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets and had a weighted-average effective interest rate, including issuance costs, of 0.08 % and 4.47 %, respectively. We use the net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper for general corporate purposes. We have a $ 10.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of lenders (the “Credit Agreement”), which was amended and restated in March 2022 to increase the borrowing capacity from $ 7.0 billion to $ 10.0 billion and to extend the term to March 2025. It may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders. The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is the applicable benchmark rate specified in the Credit Agreement plus 0.45 %, with a commitment fee of 0.03 % on the undrawn portion of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. In November 2022, we entered into a $ 10.0 billion unsecured 364-day revolving credit facility with a syndicate of lenders (the “Short-Term Credit Agreement”), which matures in November 2023 and may be extended for one additional period of 364 days if approved by the lenders. The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Short-Term Credit Agreement is the Secured Overnight Financing Rate specified in the Short-Term Credit Agreement plus 0.45 %, with a commitment fee of 0.05 % on the undrawn portion. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Short-Term Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2022. We also utilize other short-term credit facilities for working capital purposes. There were $ 318 million and $ 1.2 billion of borrowings outstanding under these facilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, which were included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, we had $ 6.9 billion of unused letters of credit as of December 31, 2022. In January 2023, we entered into an $ 8.0 billion unsecured 364-day term loan with a syndicate of lenders (the “Term Loan”), which matures in January 2024 and bears interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate specified in the Term Loan plus 0.75 %. If we exercise our option to extend the Term Loan’s maturity to January 2025, the interest rate spread will increase from 0.75 % to 1.05 %. As of the date of this filing, the entire Term Loan is outstanding. 57 Table of Contents Note 7 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Thereafter Total Long-term debt principal and interest $ 5,165 $ 10,618 $ 7,146 $ 5,253 $ 10,399 $ 63,815 $ 102,396 Operating lease liabilities 9,574 8,658 8,024 7,393 6,675 40,949 81,273 Finance lease liabilities, including interest 4,575 2,248 1,422 1,279 1,088 7,407 18,019 Financing obligations, including interest (1) 465 464 456 464 471 6,712 9,032 Leases not yet commenced 1,252 2,043 2,185 2,160 2,152 17,237 27,029 Unconditional purchase obligations (2) 8,156 7,217 5,366 4,525 3,419 6,093 34,776 Other commitments (3)(4) 3,173 1,608 1,027 982 622 8,652 16,064 Total commitments $ 32,360 $ 32,856 $ 25,626 $ 22,056 $ 24,826 $ 150,865 $ 288,589 ___________________ (1) Includes non-cancellable financing obligations for fulfillment, sortation, and data center facilities. Excluding interest, current financing obligations of $ 196 million and $ 266 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” and $ 6.2 billion and $ 6.7 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. The weighted-average remaining term of the financing obligations was 18.8 years and 17.9 years and the weighted-average imputed interest rate was 3.2 % and 3.1 % as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. (2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. (3) Includes asset retirement obligations, liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year, and the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction. (4) Excludes approximately $ 4.0 billion of accrued tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. In July 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire 1Life Healthcare, Inc. (One Medical) for approximately $ 3.9 billion, including its debt, subject to customary closing conditions. In August 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire iRobot Corporation for approximately $ 1.7 billion, including its debt, subject to customary closing conditions. We expect to fund these acquisitions with cash on hand. Suppliers During 2022, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Other Contingencies We are disputing claims and denials of refunds or credits related to various non-income taxes (such as sales, value added, consumption, service, and similar taxes), including in jurisdictions in which we already collect and remit these taxes. These non-income tax controversies typically relate to (i) the taxability of products and services, including cross-border intercompany transactions, (ii) collection and withholding on transactions with third parties, and (iii) the adequacy of compliance with reporting obligations, including evolving documentation requirements. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and the judicial and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome of any such controversies may be materially different from our expectations. 58 Table of Contents Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: In November 2015, Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of “interactive features” on www.amazon.com, including “search suggestions and search results,” infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,195,507, entitled “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects Within a Hypermedia Document.” The complaint sought a judgment of infringement together with costs and attorneys’ fees. In February 2016, Eolas filed an amended complaint seeking, among other things, an unspecified amount of damages. In February 2017, Eolas alleged in its damages report that in the event of a finding of liability Amazon could be subject to $ 130 to $ 250 million in damages. In April 2017, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. In May 2022, the district court granted summary judgment holding that the patent is invalid. In June 2022, Eolas filed a notice of appeal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In May 2018, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and CF Dynamic Advances LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “Alexa Voice Software and Alexa enabled devices” infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,177,798, entitled “Natural Language Interface Using Constrained Intermediate Dictionary of Results.” The complaint seeks an injunction, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages , an ongoing royalty, interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2018, Kove IO, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon S3 and DynamoDB infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,814,170 and 7,103,640, both entitled “Network Distributed Tracking Wire Transfer Protocol”; and 7,233,978, entitled “Method and Apparatus for Managing Location Information in a Network Separate from the Data to Which the Location Information Pertains.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. In March 2022, the case was stayed pending resolution of review petitions we filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In November 2022, the stay was lifted. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2020, with Frame-Wilson v. Amazon.com, Inc. filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, private litigants have filed a number of cases in the U.S. and Canada alleging, among other things, price fixing arrangements between Amazon.com, Inc. and vendors and third-party sellers in Amazon’s stores, monopolization and attempted monopolization, and consumer protection and unjust enrichment claims. Attorneys General for the District of Columbia and California brought similar suits in May 2021 and September 2022 in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia and the California Superior Court for the County of San Francisco, respectively. Some of the private cases include allegations of several distinct purported classes, including consumers who purchased a product through Amazon’s stores and consumers who purchased a product offered by Amazon through another e-commerce retailer. The complaints seek billions of dollars of alleged actual damages, treble damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, civil penalties, attorneys’ fees, and costs. In March 2022 and January 2023, Amazon’s motions to dismiss were granted in part and denied in part in Frame-Wilson and De Coster v. Amazon.com, Inc. (WD Wash), respectively; both courts dismissed claims alleging that Amazon’s pricing policies are inherently illegal and denied dismissal of claims alleging that Amazon’s pricing policies are an unlawful restraint of trade. In March 2022, the DC Superior Court dismissed the DC Attorney General’s lawsuit in its entirety; the dismissal is under appeal as of January 2023. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. In October 2020, BroadbandiTV, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com Services LLC, and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Amazon Prime Video features and services infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 9,648,388, 10,546,750, and 10,536,751, each entitled “Video-On-Demand Content Delivery System for Providing Video-On-Demand Services to TV Services Subscribers”; 10,028,026, entitled “System for Addressing On-Demand TV Program Content on TV Services Platform of a Digital TV Services Provider”; and 9,973,825, entitled “Dynamic Adjustment of Electronic Program Guide Displays Based on Viewer Preferences for Minimizing Navigation in VOD Program Selection.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages. In April 2022, BroadbandiTV alleged in its damages report that, in the event of a finding of liability, Amazon could be subject to $ 166 to $ 986 million in damages. In September 2022, the court granted summary judgment, holding that the patents are invalid. In October 2022, BroadbandiTV filed a notice of appeal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 59 Table of Contents In November 2020, the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections alleging that Amazon uses data relating to our marketplace sellers in a manner that infringes EU competition rules. The Statement of Objections sought to impose unspecified fines and remedial actions. In December 2022, the European Commission adopted formal commitments without fines, fully resolving the investigation. In July 2021, the Luxembourg National Commission for Data Protection (the “CNPD”) issued a decision against Amazon Europe Core S.à r.l. claiming that Amazon’s processing of personal data did not comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation. The decision imposes a fine of € 746 million and corresponding practice revisions. We believe the CNPD’s decision to be without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2021, Jawbone Innovations, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Echo smart speakers and displays, Fire TV Cube, and Echo Buds infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,246,058, entitled “Detecting Voiced and Unvoiced Speech Using Both Acoustic and Nonacoustic Sensors”; 8,019,091, entitled “Voice Activity Detector (VAD)-Based Multiple-Microphone Acoustic Noise Suppression”; 8,280,072, entitled “Microphone Array with Rear Venting”; 8,321,213 and 8,326,611, both entitled “Acoustic Voice Activity Detection (AVAD) for Electronic Systems”; 8,467,543, entitled “Microphone and Voice Activity Detection (VAD) Configurations for Use with Communications Systems”; 8,503,691, entitled “Virtual Microphone Arrays Using Dual Omnidirectional Microphone Array (DOMA)”; 10,779,080, entitled “Dual Omnidirectional Microphone Array (DOMA)”; and 11,122,357, entitled “Forming Virtual Microphone Arrays Using Dual Omnidirectional Microphone Array (DOMA).” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. In November 2022, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In December 2021, the Italian Competition Authority (the “ICA”) issued a decision against Amazon Services Europe S.à r.l., Amazon Europe Core S.à r.l., Amazon EU S.à r.l., Amazon Italia Services S.r.l., and Amazon Italia Logistica S.r.l. claiming that certain of our marketplace and logistics practices in Italy infringe EU competition rules. The decision imposes remedial actions and a fine of € 1.13 billion, which we are paying and will seek to recover pending conclusion of all appeals. We believe the ICA’s decision to be without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In July 2022, Acceleration Bay, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon EC2, Amazon CloudFront, AWS Lambda, Amazon Lumberyard, Luna, Amazon Prime Video, Twitch, Amazon GameLift, GridMate, Amazon EKS, AWS App Mesh, and Amazon VPC infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 6,701,344, entitled “Distributed Game Environment”; 6,714,966, entitled “Information Delivery Service”; 6,732,147, entitled “Leaving a Broadcast Channel”; 6,829,634, entitled “Broadcasting Network”; and 6,910,069, entitled “Joining a Broadcast Channel.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In November 2022, LightGuide, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services LLC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s Nike Intent Detection System used in certain fulfillment centers infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 7,515,981, entitled “Light Guided Assembly System”; and 9,658,614 and 10,528,036, each entitled “Light Guided Assembly System and Method.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In addition, we are regularly subject to claims, li tigation, and other proceedings, including potential regulatory proceedings, involving patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition and antitrust, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered by us and by third parties, and other matters. The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal proceedings and other contingencies that could affect the amount of liability, including amounts in excess of any previous accruals and reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our accruals and disclosures as appropriate. For the matters we disclose that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss or range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. Until the final resolution of such matters, if any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, we may experience losses in excess of the amounts recorded, which could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See also “Note 9 — Income Taxes.” 60 Table of Contents Note 8 — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $ 0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any year presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 10.4 billion, 10.5 billion, and 10.6 billion, as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity In March 2022, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $ 10.0 billion of our common stock, with no fixed expiration, which replaced the previous $ 5.0 billion stock repurchase authorization, approved by the Board of Directors in February 2016. We repurchased 46.2 million shares of our common stock for $ 6.0 billion in 2022 under these programs. There were no repurchases of common stock in 2020 or 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we have $ 6.1 billion remaining under the repurchase program. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Cost of sales $ 283 $ 540 $ 757 Fulfillment 1,357 1,946 2,745 Technology and content 5,061 6,645 10,621 Sales and marketing 1,710 2,530 3,875 General and administrative 797 1,096 1,623 Total stock-based compensation expense (1) $ 9,208 $ 12,757 $ 19,621 ___________________ (1) The related tax benefits were $ 1.9 billion, $ 2.7 billion, and $ 4.3 billion for 2020, 2021, and 2022. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding as of January 1, 2020 286.7 $ 73 Units granted 158.6 119 Units vested ( 115.5 ) 62 Units forfeited ( 26.5 ) 82 Outstanding as of December 31, 2020 303.3 100 Units granted 127.3 167 Units vested ( 108.4 ) 85 Units forfeited ( 42.3 ) 116 Outstanding as of December 31, 2021 279.9 134 Units granted 262.8 142 Units vested ( 113.3 ) 114 Units forfeited ( 45.0 ) 143 Outstanding as of December 31, 2022 384.4 144 61 Table of Contents Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2022, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting — restricted stock units 140.8 136.6 67.3 35.8 1.7 2.2 384.4 As of December 31, 2022, there was $ 23.8 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with more than half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a remaining weighted-average recognition period of 1.1 years. The estimated forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022 was 26.7 %, 26.5 %, and 26.5 %. Changes in our estimates and assumptions relating to forfeitures may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. During 2020, 2021, and 2022, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $ 15.5 billion, $ 18.2 billion, and $ 12.8 billion. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance As of December 31, 2022, common stock available for future issuance to employees is 1.7 billion shares. Note 9 — INCOME TAXES In 2020, 2021, and 2022, we recorded net tax provision (benefit) of $ 2.9 billion, $ 4.8 billion, and $( 3.2 ) billion. Our U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of capitalized research and development expenses. Cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $ 1.7 billion, $ 3.7 billion, and $ 6.0 billion for 2020, 2021, and 2022. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. The U.S. tax rules also provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing the election of full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Our federal tax provision included a partial election for 2020 and 2021, and a full election for 2022. Effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes. The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 U.S. Federal: Current $ 1,835 $ 2,129 $ 2,175 Deferred ( 151 ) 155 ( 6,686 ) Total 1,684 2,284 ( 4,511 ) U.S. State: Current 626 763 1,074 Deferred ( 190 ) ( 178 ) ( 1,302 ) Total 436 585 ( 228 ) International: Current 956 2,209 1,682 Deferred ( 213 ) ( 287 ) ( 160 ) Total 743 1,922 1,522 Provision (benefit) for income taxes, net $ 2,863 $ 4,791 $ ( 3,217 ) U.S. and international components of income (loss) before income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 U.S. $ 20,219 $ 35,879 $ ( 8,225 ) International 3,959 2,272 2,289 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 24,178 $ 38,151 $ ( 5,936 ) 62 Table of Contents The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate $ 5,078 $ 8,012 $ ( 1,246 ) Effect of: Tax impact of foreign earnings and losses ( 538 ) ( 1,349 ) ( 370 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 343 465 ( 173 ) Tax credits ( 639 ) ( 1,136 ) ( 1,006 ) Stock-based compensation (1) ( 1,107 ) ( 1,094 ) 612 Foreign income deduction (2) ( 372 ) ( 301 ) ( 1,258 ) Other, net 98 194 224 Total $ 2,863 $ 4,791 $ ( 3,217 ) ___________________ (1) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and excess tax benefits or shortfalls from stock-based compensation. Our tax provision includes $ 1.8 billion and $ 1.9 billion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for 2020 and 2021, and a $ 33 million tax shortfall from stock-based compensation for 2022. (2) U.S. companies are eligible for a deduction that lowers the effective tax rate on certain foreign income. This regime is referred to as the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction. Our provision for income taxes in 2021 was higher than in 2020 primarily due to an increase in pretax income. This was partially offset by an increase in U.S. federal research and development credits and the impact of the distribution of certain intangible assets from Luxembourg to the U.S. in Q4 2021, resulting in the utilization of $ 2.6 billion of Luxembourg deferred tax assets previously subject to a valuation allowance. We generated an income tax benefit in 2022 as compared to a provision for income taxes in 2021 primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and an increase in the foreign income deduction. This was partially offset by a reduction in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and a decrease in the tax impact of foreign earnings and losses driven by a decline in the favorable effects of corporate restructuring transactions. The foreign income deduction benefit recognized in 2022 reflects a change in our application of tax regulations related to the computation of qualifying foreign income and includes an income tax benefit of approximately $ 655 million related to years prior to 2022. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. 63 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2021 2022 Deferred tax assets (1): Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States 228 386 Loss carryforwards - Foreign 2,417 2,831 Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses 2,821 3,280 Stock-based compensation 2,738 4,295 Depreciation and amortization 941 1,009 Operating lease liabilities 15,399 18,285 Capitalized research and development — 6,824 Other items 603 1,023 Tax credits 626 950 Total gross deferred tax assets 25,773 38,883 Less valuation allowances (2) ( 3,596 ) ( 4,374 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances 22,177 34,509 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( 3,562 ) ( 9,039 ) Operating lease assets ( 14,422 ) ( 17,140 ) Assets held for investment ( 4,019 ) — Other items ( 668 ) ( 817 ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowances $ ( 494 ) $ 7,513 ___________________ (1) Deferred tax assets are presented after tax effects and net of tax contingencies. (2) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign taxing jurisdictions or future capital gains, as well as tax credits. Our valuation allowances primarily relate to foreign deferred tax assets, including substantially all of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2022. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes as of December 31, 2022 were approximately $ 10.4 billion before tax effects and certain of these amounts are subject to annual limitations under applicable tax law. If not utilized, a portion of these losses will begin to expire in 2023. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. 64 Table of Contents The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Gross tax contingencies – January 1 $ 3,923 $ 2,820 $ 3,242 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 88 403 274 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods ( 465 ) ( 354 ) ( 172 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 507 507 706 Settlements with tax authorities ( 1,207 ) ( 60 ) ( 20 ) Lapse of statute of limitations ( 26 ) ( 74 ) ( 28 ) Gross tax contingencies – December 31 (1) $ 2,820 $ 3,242 $ 4,002 ___________________ (1) As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $ 4.0 billion of accrued tax contingencies of which $ 2.2 billion, if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $ 110 million and $ 103 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022 were $( 48 ) million, $ 28 million, and $( 7 ) million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service for the calendar year 2016 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments by the relevant authorities in respect of these particular jurisdictions primarily for 2011 and thereafter. We are currently disputing tax assessments in multiple jurisdictions, including with respect to the allocation and characterization of income. In September 2022, the Luxembourg Tax Authority (“LTA”) denied the tax basis of certain intangible assets that we distributed from Luxembourg to the U.S. in 2021. We believe the LTA’s position is without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In February 2023, we received a decision by the Indian Tax Authority (“ITA”) that tax applies to cloud services fees paid to the U.S. We will need to remit taxes on the services in question, including for a portion of prior years, until this matter is resolved, which payments could be significant in the aggregate. We believe the ITA’s decision is without merit, we intend to defend our position vigorously, and we expect to recoup taxes paid. If this matter is adversely resolved, we would reflect significant additional tax expense, including for taxes previously paid. In October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. On October 4, 2017, the European Commission announced its decision that determinations by the tax authorities in Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules on state aid. Based on that decision the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately € 250 million, plus interest, for the period May 2006 through June 2014, and ordered Luxembourg tax authorities to calculate the actual amount of additional taxes subject to recovery. Luxembourg computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’s decision, which we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals. In December 2017, Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’s decision. In May 2018, we appealed. On May 12, 2021, the European Union General Court annulled the European Commission’s state aid decision. In July 2021, the European Commission appealed the decision to the European Court of Justice. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations may impact our tax contingencies. Due to various factors, including the inherent complexities and uncertainties of the judicial, administrative, and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the timing of the resolution of income tax controversies is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax controversies in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements could result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on prior years’ tax filings. The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes. 65 Table of Contents Note 10 — SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,” “Sales and marketing,” and “General and administrative” based on usage, which is generally reflected in the segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of technology infrastructure costs are allocated to the AWS segment based on usage. The majority of the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s business performance and manages its operations. North America The North America segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused online and physical stores. This segment includes export sales from these online stores. International The International segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused online stores. This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused online stores (including export sales from these online stores to customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North America-focused online stores. AWS The AWS segment consists of amounts earned from global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 North America Net sales $ 236,282 $ 279,833 $ 315,880 Operating expenses 227,631 272,562 318,727 Operating income (loss) $ 8,651 $ 7,271 $ ( 2,847 ) International Net sales $ 104,412 $ 127,787 $ 118,007 Operating expenses 103,695 128,711 125,753 Operating income (loss) $ 717 $ ( 924 ) $ ( 7,746 ) AWS Net sales $ 45,370 $ 62,202 $ 80,096 Operating expenses 31,839 43,670 57,255 Operating income $ 13,531 $ 18,532 $ 22,841 Consolidated Net sales $ 386,064 $ 469,822 $ 513,983 Operating expenses 363,165 444,943 501,735 Operating income 22,899 24,879 12,248 Total non-operating income (expense) 1,279 13,272 ( 18,184 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( 2,863 ) ( 4,791 ) 3,217 Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 16 4 ( 3 ) Net income (loss) $ 21,331 $ 33,364 $ ( 2,722 ) 66 Table of Contents Net sales by groups of similar products and services, which also have similar economic characteristics, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 Net Sales: Online stores (1) $ 197,346 $ 222,075 $ 220,004 Physical stores (2) 16,227 17,075 18,963 Third-party seller services (3) 80,461 103,366 117,716 Subscription services (4) 25,207 31,768 35,218 Advertising services (5) 19,773 31,160 37,739 AWS 45,370 62,202 80,096 Other (6) 1,680 2,176 4,247 Consolidated $ 386,064 $ 469,822 $ 513,983 ___________________ (1) Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software. These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store. Sales to customers who order goods online for delivery or pickup at our physical stores are included in “Online stores.” (3) Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. (4) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS subscription services. (5) Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. (6) Includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video content and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Net sales are attributed to countries primarily based on country-focused online and physical stores or, for AWS purposes, the selling entity. Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 United States $ 263,520 $ 314,006 $ 356,113 Germany 29,565 37,326 33,598 United Kingdom 26,483 31,914 30,074 Japan 20,461 23,071 24,396 Rest of world 46,035 63,505 69,802 Consolidated $ 386,064 $ 469,822 $ 513,983 67 Table of Contents Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such as cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based on usage, with the majority allocated to the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions): December 31, 2020 2021 2022 North America (1) $ 108,405 $ 161,255 $ 185,268 International (1) 42,212 57,983 64,666 AWS (2) 47,574 63,835 88,491 Corporate 123,004 137,476 124,250 Consolidated $ 321,195 $ 420,549 $ 462,675 ___________________ (1) North America and International segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment, operating leases, inventory, and accounts receivable. (2) AWS segment assets primarily consist of property and equipment and accounts receivable. Property and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2020 2021 2022 North America $ 54,912 $ 83,640 $ 90,076 International 15,375 21,718 23,347 AWS 32,151 43,245 60,324 Corporate 10,676 11,678 12,968 Consolidated $ 113,114 $ 160,281 $ 186,715 Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 North America (1) $ 29,889 $ 37,397 $ 23,682 International (1) 8,072 10,259 6,711 AWS (2) 16,530 22,047 27,755 Corporate 3,485 2,622 2,688 Consolidated $ 57,976 $ 72,325 $ 60,836 ___________________ (1) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $ 5.6 billion, $ 3.6 billion, and $ 422 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022, and under build-to-suit lease arrangements of $ 2.7 billion, $ 5.6 billion, and $ 3.2 billion in 2020, 2021, and 2022. (2) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases of $ 7.7 billion, $ 3.5 billion, and $ 253 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022, and under build-to-suit lease arrangements of $ 130 million, $ 51 million, and $ 20 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022. U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $ 109.5 billion, $ 155.0 billion, and $ 180.0 billion, as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, and non-U.S. property and equipment, net and operating leases were $ 41.2 billion, $ 61.3 billion, and $ 72.9 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net and operating leases in any single country were less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net and operating leases. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment, including corporate property and equipment, are allocated to all segments based on usage. Total depreciation and amortization expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2021 2022 North America $ 6,421 $ 9,234 $ 11,565 International 2,215 3,022 3,483 AWS 7,603 10,653 9,876 Consolidated $ 16,239 $ 22,909 $ 24,924 68 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 40  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 

Item 7 of Part II—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements.” General Amazon.com, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, commenced operations on the World
Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to offer Earth’s Biggest Selection and to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want to buy. We endeavor to offer our customers the lowest possible
prices. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, we enable businesses and individuals to sell virtually anything to Amazon.com’s millions of customers. We and other sellers offer millions of new, used, refurbished, and
collectible items, in categories such as: •     Apparel, shoes and accessories •     Home, garden, and outdoor living products •     Baby care products •     Jewelry and watches •     Books •     Kitchenware and housewares •     Camera and photography •     Magazine subscriptions •     Cell phones and service •     Music •     Computers and computer add-ons •     Office products •     Consumer electronics •     Software •     DVD’s and videos •     Sports & Outdoors •     Gourmet food •     Tools and hardware •     Health and personal care •     Toys We operate six global
websites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.co.jp, and www.amazon.ca . We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment
includes the operating results of www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . The International segment includes the operating results of www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr , and www.amazon.co.jp. See   

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 15—Segment Information.” Amazon.com was incorporated in 1994 in the state of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public
offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “AMZN.” As used herein, “Amazon.com,” “we,” “our” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the
context indicates otherwise. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our business strategy is to offer our customers low prices, convenience, and a wide selection of merchandise. Price We endeavor to offer our customers the lowest prices possible. We strive to
improve our operating efficiencies and to leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices. We also enable third-party sellers to offer products on our site, in many instances
alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers,
computer scientists, and management team focus on continuous innovation to provide further convenience for our customers. We promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases by providing feature-rich content, a secure and trusted transaction environment,
easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. Key features of our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; Web pages tailored to individual preferences, such as
recommendations and notifications; 1-Click ® technology; secure payment systems; browsing; searching; and the ability to view selected interior pages and search the entire contents of many of the books we offer with our “Look Inside the Book” and “Search Inside the Book”
features. Our community of online users also creates feature-rich content, including online recommendation lists, wish lists, and wedding and baby registries. We endeavor to fulfill customer orders quickly, and to provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. We
communicate our fulfillment promise in several ways, such as presenting up-to-date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, as well as delivery shipment notifications. Additionally, customers
can use the “your account” website features to track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items.
In the event our customers would like to contact customer service, our representatives may be contacted by e-mail or by phone. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through our six U.S. and three international fulfillment centers; through fulfillment centers
operated under co-sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www.amazon.co.jp ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment provider supporting www.amazon.ca; and through other third-party
fulfillment arrangements. We operate six customer service centers and have several co-sourcing arrangements to provide additional customer service. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 17—Subsequent Events.” We Face Intense Competition The market segments in which we compete are rapidly evolving and intensely
competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including both the retail and e-commerce services industries. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater
financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and e-commerce services
industries also may be able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing than we do. Competition in the e-commerce channel may intensify. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce service industries may enter into business combinations
or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded
Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than
conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, or both. Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other
Business Relationships We may enter into commercial
agreements, strategic alliances, and other business relationships with other companies. We have entered into agreements to provide e-commerce services to other businesses and we plan to 7 Table of Contents enter into similar agreements in the future, including as part of our Merchants@, Syndicated Stores, and Merchant.com initiatives. Under such agreements, we
may perform services such as: providing our technology services such as search, browse, and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals to offer products or services through our websites; and powering third-party websites, either
with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such agreements we are able to enter into and may affect
our ability to integrate and deliver services under the relevant agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain, and develop successfully the various components of such commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service,
inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing of third party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties to perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not be viable. The amount of compensation we
receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the other company makes. Therefore, if the other business’s website or product or services offering is not successful, we may not receive all of the compensation
we are otherwise due under the agreement or may not be able to maintain the agreement. Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms. As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise terminate, we may be unable
to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. Some of
our agreements involve high margin services, such as marketing and promotional agreements, and as such agreements expire they may be replaced, if at all, by agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several past commercial agreements
were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable to meet their obligations to us. We may in the future enter into further amendments of these agreements or encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual
obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; • impairment of other relationships; • variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or terminating such agreements or relationships; and • difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our present and future acquisitions, business combinations, joint ventures, and investments create additional risks such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; • difficulty assimilating the operations, technology, and personnel of combined companies; • problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; and • additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses. Our Investments and the Consideration We Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us to a Number of Risks In the past, we have entered into commercial agreements with other
companies, including strategic alliances whereby we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange for our services we received cash, equity securities of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such as website traffic. The amount of
compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other company. In 8 Table of Contents some cases, we have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for equity securities of that company. We may
make similar investments in the future. To the extent we have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our ultimate realization of amounts we have received as compensation for services. In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements
to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount of
unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts has been changed to correspond with the terms of the amended agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or
may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. Our investments in equity securities are included in “Marketable securities” and “Other equity investments” on our consolidated
balance sheets. We regularly review all of our investments in public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment below our accounting basis is
other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In recent years, securities of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced significant
difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters that the fair values of our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. As of December 31, 2003, our recorded basis in equity securities was $23 million, including $9
million classified as “Marketable securities” and $15 million classified as “Other equity investments.” The Seasonality of Our Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. If we do
not stock popular products in sufficient amounts or fail to have sources to timely restock popular products, such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may
be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A failure to optimize inventory in our U.S. fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make long-zone shipments or
partial shipments from one or more locations. Orders from each of our internationally focused websites are fulfilled primarily from a single fulfillment center, and we have only a limited ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping.
We may experience a decline in our shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. If the other businesses on whose behalf we
perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too many customers access our
websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell
and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services to our customers may be unable to meet the
seasonal demand. Finally, we, along with our customer service co-sourcers, may be unable to adequately staff customer service centers. We generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of
holiday sales, at December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities). This operating
cycle results in a corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result in a decline in the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities on hand. 9 Table of Contents We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Rate of Growth Due to our limited operating history, our evolving
business model, and the unpredictability of our industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. Our
expenses and investments are to a large extent fixed. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our net sales fall short of our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by us or our sellers, and our business is
affected by general economic and business conditions throughout the world. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Terrorist
attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue or growth. Such events could create delays in, and increase the cost of, product shipments, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may
not be sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease in the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • our ability to expand our network of sellers, and to enter into, maintain, renew, and amend on favorable terms our commercial agreements and strategic alliances; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • our ability to acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; • the introduction by our competitors of websites, products, services, or improvements; • changes in usage of the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance of the Internet and e-commerce; • timing and costs of upgrades and developments in our systems and infrastructure; • the effects of commercial agreements and strategic alliances and our ability to successfully implement the underlying relationships and integrate them into our business; • the effects of acquisitions, and other business combinations and our ability to successfully integrate them into our business; • technical difficulties, system downtime, or interruptions; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • variations in our level of merchandise and vendor returns; • disruptions in service by shipping carriers; • the extent to which we offer free shipping promotions; and • an increase in the prices of fuel and gasoline, which are used in the transportation of packages, as well as an increase in the prices of other energy products, primarily natural
gas and electricity, which are used in our operating facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales in almost all of our
product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. 10 Table of Contents We Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances
associated with our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant transaction gains
or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. In
addition, our 6.875% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010 (“6.875% PEACS”) are denominated in Euros, not U.S. Dollars. We remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS quarterly based on fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio
and record gains or losses in “Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other” on our consolidated statements of operations. Furthermore, we hold cash equivalents and marketable securities in Euros, British Pounds and Yen. Accordingly, if the
U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Planned Future Growth Will Place a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational, and Financial Resources We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
operations and will endeavor to expand further to pursue growth of our product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. We also need to
hire, train, and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic
locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our newer market segments from the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the online book channel.
Our gross profits in our newer business activities may be lower than in our older business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no experience in new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new
businesses. To the extent we pursue commercial agreements and/or strategic alliances to facilitate new product or service activities, the agreements and/or alliances may not be successful. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation
and negatively affect revenue growth. The Loss of Key
Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. We do not have
“key person” life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack of Integration and Redundancy in Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access to our websites directly affects the volume of goods we sell
and the services we offer and thus affects our net sales. We experience occasional system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties, which may reduce our
net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to continually add additional software and hardware and upgrade in an effective manner our systems and network infrastructure, it could cause system interruption and
adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and
communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events
or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. 11 Table of Contents Should this occur, it would make our product offerings less attractive to our customers and our service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we
do have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance
limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy. We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to Expand into International Market Segments We plan, over time, to continue to expand our reach in international market
segments. We have relatively little experience in purchasing, marketing, and distributing products or services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to establish international facilities and
operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized websites, stores, and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining
the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with
respect to: • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); • import or export licensing requirements; • limitations on the repatriation of funds; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • nationalization; • longer receivable cycles; • consumer protection laws and restrictions on pricing or discounts; • lower level of adoption or use of the Internet and other technologies vital to our business and the lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; • lower level of credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty in developing and simultaneously managing a larger number of unique foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; • laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, and loans; • tax and other laws of the U.S. and other jurisdictions; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. As the international e-commerce channel continues to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage
because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. In addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other online services in such
areas as content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, or distribution. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth in international market segments. 12 Table of Contents We Face Significant Inventory Risk We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality,
new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. Demand for
products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A failure to optimize
inventory within our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result
of our Merchants@ program relationships with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, manage, and bear the financial risk of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a
result, if any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain
sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products
in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be Harmed If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, it could
significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory, and warehousing, fulfillment, and
distribution capacity. A failure to optimize inventory in our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make long-zone shipments or partial shipments from one or more locations. Orders from each of our internationally
focused websites are fulfilled primarily from a single fulfillment center, and we have only a limited ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer
service centers. Finally, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently or ship completed orders to customers may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including dependence on a limited number of shipping companies, inclement
weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, or acts of God. Third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our customers’ orders, and we are increasingly reliant on the
reliability, quality, and future procurement of their services. Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies in our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory in and
operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our business and
reputation. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our
Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective
trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available online. 13 Table of Contents We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do
business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value
of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing
unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant
financial and managerial resources. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or
superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may
infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents, and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims
and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable
to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to other businesses and
individuals under commercial agreements. We Have a
Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a relatively short operating history and, as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices
of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • general economic conditions; • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the Internet and the e-commerce industry; • fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for Internet-related companies in particular; • quarterly variations in operating results; • new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in Internet regulation; • changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; • additions or departures of key personnel; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs or closures of facilities; • changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce companies; and • certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. 14 Table of Contents Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and
financing opportunities. Future volatility in our stock price
could force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. In the first
quarter of 2001, we offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. This option exchange offer resulted in variable accounting treatment for certain of our stock options. Additionally, all options granted on or after January 1,
2003 are subject to variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based compensation expense dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock. In late 2002, we implemented a restricted
stock unit plan, which will be our primary vehicle for stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and restricted stock units, not subject to variable accounting, are measured at fair value on the date of grant based on the number of
shares granted and the quoted price of the common stock, which will be recognized as compensation expense over the corresponding service term. Government Regulation of the Internet and E-commerce Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as
regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data
protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of
products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our
business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate “auctions” and “auctioneers” and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other consumer-to-consumer online markets, including certain
aspects of Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. We May Be Subject to Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease In accordance with current industry practice, we do not collect sales taxes
or other taxes with respect to shipments of most of our goods into states other than Washington, North Dakota, and in April 2004, Kansas. Under some of our commercial agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable
merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states in accordance with that company’s instructions. We may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. We collect Value Added Tax, or
VAT, for products that are ordered on www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, and www.amazon.fr and delivered in European Union, or EU, member countries. As of July 1, 2003, we began collecting VAT with respect to certain of our
“electronically supplied services,” including digital downloads and marketplace services, provided to certain EU residents. We also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered on www.amazon.co.jp and delivered in
Japan. In addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected on sales of products that are ordered on www.amazon.ca and delivered in Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion of those
networks, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction
companies that engage in e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales,
decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well
as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s 15 Table of Contents position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and resulted
in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than Washington, North Dakota, and Kansas. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create
administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. We Source a Significant Portion of Our Inventory from a Few Vendors Although we continue to increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, we source a significant amount of inventory from relatively few vendors. However, no vendor accounts for 10% or more of our inventory
purchases. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling merchandise
to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims
relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also sell products using our e-commerce platform that may increase our
exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have sufficient resources to protect themselves from such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities
actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers and third party sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We Could Be Liable for Breaches of Security on Our
Website and Fraudulent Activities of Users of Our Payments Program A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information
and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware
that governmental agencies have investigated the provision of online payment services and could require changes in the way this business is conducted. We guarantee payments made through our payments program available to sellers on Marketplace and
certain other programs up to certain limits for buyers, and we may be unable to prevent users from fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not be shipped to a buyer. As our payments program grows, our liability risk will increase. Any costs
we incur as a result of liability because of our payments program’s guarantee or otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our payments program depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these
vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, our payments program and our businesses that use it may not be viable. We May Not Be Able to Adapt Quickly Enough to Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be able to
adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could
render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete. 16 Table of Contents The Internet as a Medium for Commerce Is Uncertain Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is a recent phenomenon
and is subject to a high level of uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet as a medium for commerce does
not continue to grow or grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than expected and our business would be harmed. We Could Be Liable for Unlawful or Fraudulent Activities by Users of Our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant.com, and Certain Other Programs We may be unable to prevent users of our Merchants@,
Marketplace, Merchant.com, and certain other programs from selling unlawful goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil or criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our users under U.S. laws and the laws
and regulations of other countries. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in preventing our users from providing content that is either illegal or that violates the proprietary rights of others, it may result in liability to us. Any costs we incur as
a result of liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent receipt of goods, or the fraudulent collection of payments could harm our business. In running our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant.com, and
other programs, we rely on sellers to make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and on buyers to pay the agreed purchase price. To the extent we expand our guarantee program, this may create additional liability for us. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive
Officers and Directors as of February 18, 2004: Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 40 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board Richard L. Dalzell 46 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer Jason Kilar 32 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software Mark S. Peek 46 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini 43 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Thomas J. Szkutak 43 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey A. Wilke 37 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service L. Michelle Wilson 41 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey P.
Bezos. Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as President from founding until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to
the present. Richard L.
Dalzell. Mr. Dalzell has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November 2001. From October 2000 until November 2001, Mr. Dalzell was Senior Vice
President and Chief Information Officer and prior to that, from joining Amazon.com in August 1997 until October 2000, he was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Jason Kilar. Mr. Kilar has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software,
since May 2003. From February 2002 to May 2003, he served as Vice President, Worldwide Application Software. From October 2001 until February 2002, he served as Vice President, Marketplace, and from February 2001 until October 2001, he served as
Vice President, Books, Music, and Video & DVD. Mr. Kilar joined Amazon.com in May, 1997 as a Product Manager. 17 Table of Contents Mark S. Peek. Mr. Peek has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting
Officer since July 2002. From November 2000 to July 2002, he served as Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April 2000 to November 2000, he served as Vice President, Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining
Amazon.com, Mr. Peek was an audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. Mr. Piacentini has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November 2001. From joining Amazon.com in February 2000 until November 2001, Mr. Piacentini was Senior
Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, of Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer’s operations in Europe, the Middle
East, and Africa. Thomas J.
Szkutak. Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 2002. Previously, Mr. Szkutak held a variety of positions at General Electric Co., including Chief Financial Officer of GE
Lighting from September 2001 to September 2002, Finance Director of GE Plastics Europe from March 1999 to September 2001, and Executive Vice President—Finance of GE Asset Management (formerly known as GE Investments) from May 1997 to March
1999. Jeffrey A. Wilke. Mr.
Wilke has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since January 2002. From October 2000 until January 2002, Mr. Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior to that he had been Vice President and General
Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon.com in September 1999. Previously, Mr. Wilke held a variety of positions at AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager of the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March 1999 to September
1999 and General Manager of the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August 1997 to February 1999. L. Michelle Wilson. Ms. Wilson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since June 2003. She
served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel, and Secretary from March 2001 until June 2003 and as Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from July 1999 until March 2001. Ms. Wilson joined Amazon.com in March 1999 as
Associate General Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior to joining Amazon.com, she was a partner in the law firm of Perkins Coie LLP. Board of Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 40 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board Tom A. Alberg 64 Managing Director of Madrona Venture Group L. John Doerr 52 General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Thomas O. Ryder 59 Chairman and CEO of Reader’s Digest Association, Inc. Patricia Q. Stonesifer 47 President and Co-Chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation William B. Gordon 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer of Electronic Arts, Inc. 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplemental Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. 20 Table of Contents   

  Item
8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are
not necessarily indicative of future results. As of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in thousands, except per share data) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 392,022 $ 174,291 $ (119,782 ) $ (130,442 ) $ (90,875 ) Net sales 5,263,699 3,932,936 3,122,433 2,761,983 1,639,839 Gross profit 1,257,168 992,618 798,558 655,777 290,645 Income (loss) from operations 270,595 64,124 (412,257 ) (863,880 ) (605,755 ) Interest income 21,955 23,687 29,103 40,821 45,451 Interest expense (129,979 ) (142,925 ) (139,232 ) (130,921 ) (84,566 ) Net income (loss) 35,282 (149,132 ) (567,277 ) (1,411,273 ) (719,968 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.09 $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) $ (4.02 ) $ (2.20 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.08 $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) $ (4.02 ) $ (2.20 ) Weighted average shares used in computation of basic earnings (loss) per share (1) 395,479 378,363 364,211 350,873 326,753 Weighted average shares used in computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share (1) 419,352 378,363 364,211 350,873 326,753 Balance Sheet and Other Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,102,273 $ 738,254 $ 540,282 $ 822,435 $ 133,309 Marketable securities 292,550 562,715 456,303 278,087 572,879 Total assets 2,162,033 1,990,449 1,637,547 2,135,169 2,465,850 Long-term debt and other 1,945,439 2,277,305 2,156,133 2,127,464 1,466,338 Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) (1,036,107 ) (1,352,814 ) (1,440,000 ) (967,251 ) 266,278 (1) For further discussion of earnings (loss) per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies” and “—Note 9—Earnings (Loss) Per Share.” 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section should be read in conjunction with “Forward-Looking Statements” below, as well as   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Overview Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers of our global websites . The products offered on our
websites include products we have purchased from distributors and manufacturers and products sold by third parties on our websites. Generally, we recognize revenue as the seller of record from items we offer from our inventory and recognize our net
share of revenue of items offered by third parties. 21 Table of Contents Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 . We also seek to minimize shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to
issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders. Free cash flow is driven primarily by increasing consolidated segment operating profit and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures.
Increases in consolidated segment operating profit result from increases in sales through our websites and a focus on keeping costs low. To increase sales, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices,
improving availability, increasing selection, expanding product information, improving ease of use, and earning customer trust. Our price reductions take several forms: we reduce the sales prices of products we sell, we recruit third-party sellers
to compete with us on product detail pages, and we reduce or eliminate the cost of shipping to the consumer. We moved to restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for equity compensation in late 2002. Restricted stock units result in charges to our income
statement; however, we believe they better align the interests of our shareholders and employees. Total shares outstanding plus employee stock awards are essentially unchanged at the end of 2003 compared to 2002. We leverage our fixed customer experience costs and work to reduce our
variable cost per unit. Our customer experience costs, specifically the costs necessary to build, enhance, and add features to our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers, are largely fixed costs. The customer experience costs
that remain variable as a percentage of sales include product costs, credit-card processing fees, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and certain aspects of our marketing costs. We focus
on maintaining a lean culture by reducing defects in our processes, and obtaining volume discounts from suppliers to decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for customers. Because we are able to turn our inventory quickly, we have a negative
operating cycle that is a source of cash flow 2 . On
average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover 3 was 18, 19, and 16 for 2003, 2002, and 2001. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our continuing focus on in-stock inventory
availability, our future investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days 4 were 50, 52, and 49 at December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001. We expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales,
the mix of suppliers, and changes in payment terms over time, including the effect of negotiating better pricing from our suppliers in exchange for shorter payment terms. Our spending in technology and content will increase as we add computer scientists and software engineers to continue to
improve our process efficiency and enhance the customer experience on our websites . We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, the improved consumer experience of the Internet outside of
the workplace through lower cost broad-band service to the home, and the advances of wireless connectivity will continue to improve the consumer experience on the Internet and increase the ubiquity of computers in people’s lives . Our
challenge will be to continue to build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage of continued advances in technology. 1 Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website
development, both of which are presented on our statements of cash flows. 2 The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 3 Inventory turnover is the quotient of cost of sales to average inventory. 4 Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to cost of sales, multiplied by the number of days in the period. 22 Table of Contents Finally, we want to emphasize that we do not believe that our reported net income for the year ended
December 31, 2003 should be viewed as a material positive event or should be considered predictive of future results. As we discuss in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies—Foreign Currencies,” had it not been for our decision to settle intercompany balances denominated in foreign currencies, we would have reported a small net loss for 2003. Also, as our financial reporting currency is the
U.S. Dollar, our total revenue, profit, and free cash flow has significantly benefited each of the past two years from weakness in the U.S. Dollar in comparison to the currencies of our faster-growing international websites. While we believe that
our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our fast growing international businesses benefits our shareholders, it is important to evaluate our growth rates after the effect of currency changes. For example, although we grew 34%
during 2003, holding currency exchange constant with the prior year our growth would have been 28%. In the future, this trend may reverse, and our consolidated U.S. Dollar revenue growth rates would be less than our local-currency growth rates. For a description of, and additional information about,
each line item summarized below, refer to 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as
anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ
materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the rate of growth of the economy in general and of the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, world events, the amount that we invest in new business opportunities and
the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, risks of inventory management, the degree to which we enter into commercial agreements and
strategic transactions and maintain and develop commercial relationships, foreign exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion, and risks of fulfillment, throughput, and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as
other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these
estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. 23 Table of Contents Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred to the carrier or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided
into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: (1) the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; (2) there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of
undelivered items; and (3) delivery of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria outlined in Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent , in determining whether it is appropriate to
record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. When we are the primary obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or
have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we record the net amounts
as commissions earned. Product sales, net of promotional
discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon
our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount
offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated
as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using
our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Net sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and amounts earned through our Merchant.com program are recognized when the item is
sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. We also record an allowance, using historical experience, for losses we incur
on our payment guarantee from disputes by customers against third-party sellers. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on
currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this
evaluation, we record a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. Currency Effect on Intercompany Balances A provision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses
arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered 24 Table of Contents long-term investments, where settlement is not planned or anticipated in the foreseeable future, be excluded in the determination of net income. Our
international operations are financed, in part, by the U.S. parent company. Currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were historically recorded to equity as translation adjustments and not included in the determination of net income
because we intended to permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we made the decision that these amounts would be repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation any exchange gain or loss arising from
remeasurement of intercompany balances is required to be recorded in the determination of net income. The effect for the fourth quarter of 2003 and the year ended December 31, 2003 was to increase net income by $36 million. The effect of this
treatment was very significant to our net income for the year and for the quarter. Had we not changed our intent as to the settlement of these intercompany balances, we would have had a net loss for 2003 and our net income for the fourth quarter of
2003 would have been reduced by almost 50%. See 

  Item 8 of Part II “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other” for further discussion. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things,
anticipated disposition of lease obligations. Key variables in determining such estimates include anticipated timing of sublease rentals, estimates of sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and
other related costs. Additionally, we may determine that certain of the office space previously vacated as part of our 2001 restructuring, which we have been unable to sublease due to poor real estate market conditions, may be necessary for our
future expansion needs. We periodically evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our estimates based on currently-available information. If we elect to utilize this office space, in accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with
Exit or Disposal Activities , we will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments to “General and administrative” on the consolidated statements of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations
and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities which were $1.40 billion, $1.30 billion, and $997 million at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Additionally, we received cash from exercises of employee stock awards of $163 million, $122
million, and $15 million in 2003, 2002, and 2001. We expect that stock award exercises will decline as a source of cash as a result of our decision to use restricted stock unit awards as our primary form of stock-based compensation. At December 31,
2003 and 2002, we held $764 million and $398 million in foreign currencies, primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. During 2003, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were utilized to redeem our 10% Senior Discount Notes due 2008 (“10% Senior
Discount Notes”) and a portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009 (“4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes”). Total redemption payments, including redemption premiums, totaled $483 million. See 

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Other.” Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers and third-party sellers, offset by cash payments we make to suppliers of
products and services, employee compensation, and interest payments on our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers and third-party sellers generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to
buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid to inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost of sales, adjusted for increases or decreases in inventory and payable levels. We generally experience a
net cash outflow during the first quarter of each year, as we pay suppliers for inventory that was purchased and sold in the fourth quarter. At the end of 2003, we held $294 million of products in inventories, an increase of $91 million in
comparison to the prior year. The increase in inventories corresponds with our efforts to add product categories, increase selection and availability in both existing and new product categories, take advantage of additional discounts offered to us
by suppliers, and the effect of foreign exchange rates. Additionally, our 25 Table of Contents accounts payable at December 31, 2003 increased $202 million over the prior year end corresponding with increased sales volume. Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are denominated in Euros, our
U.S. Dollar equivalent interest payments fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. In 2003, the U.S. Dollar weakened considerably relative to the Euro resulting in higher U.S. Dollar equivalent interest payments. Additionally, in 2003 we
began accruing interest on our 10% Senior Discount Notes and paid $2 million of interest when we repaid the full principal amount. We also made interest payments of $3 million associated with the $200 million partial redemption of our 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes; this payment was otherwise scheduled to be paid in 2004. We currently do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency effects on our interest payments relating to the 6.875% PEACS, and, as a result, any fluctuations in
the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest expense. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Other.” Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with our buying and selling of marketable securities and
purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software costs. Cash provided by investing activities was $237 million during 2003, while cash used in investing activities was $122 million and $253 million during 2002 and 2001. Our capital
expenditures were $46 million, $39 million, and $50 million for 2003, 2002, and 2001. We believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient to keep our facilities and equipment in suitable operating condition. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities consists primarily of cash
proceeds from exercises of stock options, repayment of long-term debt, and repayment of capital lease obligations. Cash used in financing activities was $332 million during 2003 resulting primarily from repayments of long-term debt obligations. Cash
provided by financing activities was $107 million during 2002 and 2001. We expect cash proceeds from exercises of employee stock options to decline over time as we plan to continue issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for employee
stock-based awards. In January 2004, our Board of Directors
authorized a debt repurchase program pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to an aggregate of $500 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS. In addition to this debt repurchase program, on February 26, 2004, we will redeem $150 million of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments as of December 31, 2003 (in thousands): 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net of estimated sublease income $ 9,577 $ 4,998 $ 3,421 $ 3,356 $ 2,691 $ 5,300 $ 29,343 Other 897 300 — — — — 1,197 Restructuring-related commitments 10,474 5,298 3,421 3,356 2,691 5,300 30,540 Other commitments: Debt principal and other (1)(2) 3,013 74 — — 246 1,931,160 1,934,493 Debt interest (1)(2) 109,656 109,656 109,656 109,656 109,656 144,517 692,797 Capital leases 1,678 868 341 — — — 2,887 Operating leases (3) 51,498 43,323 42,391 39,100 38,181 131,040 345,533 Purchase obligations (4) 187,881 — — — — — 187,881 Other commitments 353,726 153,921 152,388 148,756 148,083 2,206,717 3,163,591 Total commitments $ 364,200 $ 159,219 $ 155,809 $ 152,112 $ 150,774 $ 2,212,017 $ 3,194,131 (1) The principal payment due in 2010 and the annual interest payments due under our 6.875% PEACS fluctuate based on the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio. At December
31, 2003, the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate was 1.260. Due to 26 Table of Contents fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, our principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance has increased by $197 million through
December 31, 2003. We cannot predict the performance of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro. (2) See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 17—Subsequent Events.” (3) Pursuant to SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized at their inception as either operating or capital leases depending on certain defined
criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for us, pursuant to SFAS No. 13 they are not reflected on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2003, we have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate of
$346 million. If we had applied to our equipment-related operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not be in accordance with GAAP, we would have recorded approximately $76 million of additional assets and
obligations on our balance sheet at December 31, 2003. (4) Consists of legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory. Legally-binding commitments associated with non-inventory purchases are not significant. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” and “—Note 8—Stockholders’ Deficit.” Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles was $3 million, $5 million, and $181 million for 2003, 2002, and 2001. Goodwill is no longer amortized, in
accordance with GAAP, and based on the current balance of intangibles, absent any additional investment, amortization of intangibles will not be significant going forward. Restructuring-Related and Other Cash payments resulting from our January 2001 operational restructuring were $26 million and $45 million for 2003 and 2002.
Based on currently available information, we estimate the remaining restructuring-related cash outflows will be as follows (in thousands): Leases Other Total Years Ending December 31, 2004 $ 9,577 $ 897 $ 10,474 2005 4,998 300 5,298 2006 3,421 — 3,421 2007 3,356 — 3,356 2008 2,691 — 2,691 Thereafter 5,300 — 5,300 Total estimated cash outflows (1) $ 29,343 $ 1,197 $ 30,540 (1) Cash flows are presented net of an estimated $39 million in sublease rentals. At December 31, 2003 we have signed sublease agreements totaling $15 million. For additional information about our January 2001 operational
restructuring, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Restructuring-Related and Other.” Net Interest Expense We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher short-to-intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Our interest
income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them. The primary components of our interest expense relate to our debt instruments. During 2003, we redeemed our 10% Senior Discount Notes and
we redeemed a portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. At December 31, 2003, our total long-term indebtedness was $1.95 billion. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and
Other” and “—Note 17—Subsequent Events.” 31 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was a gain of $3 million and $6 million for 2003 and 2002, and a loss of $2 million in 2001.
These amounts consist of gains on sales of marketable securities; state, foreign, and other taxes; and miscellaneous non-operating gains and losses. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Other
Income (Expense), Net” for additional information. Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other consisted of the following (in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Foreign-currency gain (loss) on 6.875% PEACS (1) $ (140,130 ) $ (103,136 ) $ 46,613 Loss on redemption of long-term debt (2) (23,829 ) — — Foreign currency effect on intercompany balances (3) 35,574 — — Other-than-temporary impairments and other (4) (1,276 ) 6,863 (48,754 ) Total remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other $ (129,661 ) $ (96,273 ) $ (2,141 ) (1) Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to “Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other” on our
consolidated statements of operations. (2) See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Other” for additional information on repayments of long-term debt
in 2003. (3) Represents the gain associated with the remeasurement of intercompany balances due to changes in foreign exchange rates (See 

  Item 8 of Part II “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Foreign Currencies”). In future periods, remeasurement of intercompany balances that remain outstanding will result in gains or losses being recorded to
“Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other” on our consolidated statements of operations. (4) Includes a $6 million loss relating to the termination of our Euro Currency Swap in 2003. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
6—Long-Term Debt and Other” for additional information on the termination of our Euro Currency Swap. As a result of this termination, any fluctuations in the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange will have a greater effect on our interest expense. Income Taxes Subject to certain limitations, we have approximately $2.9 billion of net
operating loss carryforwards that begin to expire at various times starting in 2010. Approximately $1.6 billion of our net operating loss carryforwards relates to tax deductible stock-based compensation in excess of amounts recognized for financial
reporting purposes. To the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, if realized, relate to stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will be recorded to stockholders’ equity, rather than to results of operations. See 

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Income Taxes” for additional information. Net Income (Loss) Although we reported net income for the year ended 2003, we believe that this net income result should not be viewed as a material positive event and is
not necessarily predictive of future reported results for a variety of reasons. For example, had we not changed our intent as to the settlement of the intercompany balances during the fourth quarter, we would have had a small net loss for the year
and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced by almost 50%. Additionally, we are unable to forecast the effect on our future reported results of certain items, including the stock-based compensation associated with variable
accounting treatment and the gain or loss associated with the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances that results from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These items represented significant quarterly charges and gains
during 2003 and may result in significant charges or gains in future periods. 32 Table of Contents Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue was $38 million and $48 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. Unearned revenue represents payments
received by us in advance of our service obligations. As we continue to structure our agreements to align the timing of our cash receipts with the service provided, we expect that, over time, balances of unearned revenue may continue to decline. We
believe this trend in unearned revenue is not significant relative to the trend in our cash flows or operating results. See “Net Sales and Gross Profit” above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, “Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures,” and other provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“1934
Act”) define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We believe that certain of our financial measures which meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure are important supplemental information to
investors. We provide: “consolidated segment operating income (loss),” “pro forma net income (loss),” “pro forma net earnings (loss) per share,” and “free cash flow.” We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes,
when publicly providing guidance on possible future results, and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. These
non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the
accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed
reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies’ non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. For
example, certain companies disclose a financial measure of earnings before certain charges such as interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, commonly referred to as EBITDA. We considered the use of EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure
to GAAP, but believe consolidated segment operating income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) are superior for our Company as certain periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such as fixed asset depreciation expense and amortization
of software development costs, and certain costs associated with our capital structure, such as interest expense, are relevant and important factors affecting our management decisions. For information about our financial results as reported in
accordance with GAAP, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For a quantitative reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, see “Reconciliation
Tables” below. Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) We measure operating results of our segments using an
internal performance measure of direct segment operating expenses that excludes: • Stock-based compensation; • Amortization of other intangibles; and • Restructuring-related and other. These operating expense line items are not allocated to segment results, and all other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated to segment
results. The sum of our individual segment results is consolidated segment operating income (loss), which we reconcile to GAAP operating income (loss). Pursuant to SEC staff interpretations of Regulation G, when presented in our financial statement
footnotes, consolidated segment 33 Table of Contents operating income is a GAAP financial measure; however, since we also present this financial measure outside the context of our financial statement footnotes,
we have included this financial measure in our discussion of non-GAAP financial measures. We use consolidated segment operating income (loss), and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our management evaluates consolidated segment income
(loss) because it excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or that we believe are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in which they are recorded, or both. Items Excluded From Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) Stock-Based Compensation We exclude stock-based compensation for the following reasons: • Stock-based compensation expense is excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance, although we consider the dilutive impact to our investors
when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly; • Stock-based compensation charges or gains are non-cash; and • The measurement of stock-based compensation is determined under a variety of methods depending on the underlying award. These methods include: (a) fixed accounting on stock options
granted at market prices, resulting in no compensation expense, (b) variable accounting on certain stock options and restricted stock units, resulting in unpredictable charges or gains beyond our control, and (c) fixed accounting for certain
restricted stock units, resulting in the estimated fair value of the award recognized over the service period. We record the employer portion of payroll tax expense, a cash expense, resulting from exercises of stock-based awards in “Fulfillment,”
“Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” on our consolidated statements of operations and do not include such expenses in “Stock-based compensation.” Amortization of Other Intangibles We exclude “Amortization of other intangibles” for the following
reasons: • Amortization of other intangibles is excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance; • Amortization of other intangibles is a non-cash charge to current operations; and • Amortization of other intangibles has diminished, is currently immaterial, and is scheduled to fully amortize by the end of 2004. Restructuring-Related and Other We exclude restructuring-related and other expenses, which are cash and
non-cash amounts, for the following reasons: • We have implemented only one restructuring event in our history, which we announced in January 2001, and accordingly we believe internally that this line item is not as important to
understanding our quarterly trends as other line items; • Since we do not regularly have restructuring-related charges, the exclusion of such charges from prior periods provides better comparability of our results of operations as viewed
by management; and • Our restructuring-related and other charges have diminished, and except for periodic adjustments to our estimates that may be required from time to time, we do not currently expect
to record additional restructuring-related charges in the foreseeable future. 34 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill If, in the future, we incur impairment losses on our goodwill, such charges would be excluded from consolidated segment
operating income (loss) since they would be non-cash, and not in the immediate control of management. We have elected to perform our annual analysis during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No indicators of impairment were identified during
the year ended December 31, 2003. Limitations of
Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) Consolidated
segment operating income (loss) has certain limitations. First, because it excludes “Stock-based compensation,” the financial measure does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. We compensate for this limitation by
providing supplemental information about stock-based compensation on the face of our consolidated statements of operations and in the footnotes to our financial statements. We also provide supplemental information about outstanding stock-based
awards, including their dilutive effect on shareholders, in the footnotes to our financial statements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies” for
presentation of our stock-based compensation expense calculated on a consistent basis for all awards using the fair value method as prescribed under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , as well as total outstanding
stock-based awards and related activity. Second, consolidated
segment operating income (loss) excludes “Restructuring-related and other.” For companies that periodically undergo restructuring events, excluding such costs from performance measures could provide an incomplete summary of ongoing costs
that would affect future cash flows. However, we compensate for this limitation by disclosing cash flow measures, including operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash obligations associated with our January 2001 restructuring event and
by providing disclosure of future estimated cash flows and remaining commitments associated with this event. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Restructuring-Related and Other.” There can
be no assurance that we will not undertake another restructuring event in the future that would affect future cash flows. If we have a restructuring event in the future, we will re-evaluate our decision to exclude such charges from our consolidated
segment operating income (loss) based on those future facts and circumstances at that time. Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) Pro forma net income (loss), including the related pro forma net earnings (loss) per share, which we reconcile to net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share, excludes, in addition to the line items described above as excluded from
consolidated segment operating income (loss), the following line items on our consolidated statements of operations: • Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other; • Equity in losses of equity-method investees, net; and • Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. We use pro forma net income (loss), and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our decision
to use this financial measure is due to the fact that pro forma net income (loss) excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in
which they are recorded, or both. Items Excluded From Pro
Forma Net Income (Loss) See “Consolidated Segment
Operating Income (Loss)—Items Excluded from Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)” for an explanation of “Stock-based compensation,” “Amortization of other intangibles,” “Restructuring-related and
other,” and “Impairment of goodwill.” 35 Table of Contents Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other The majority of “Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other” consists
of gains or charges due to our quarterly remeasurement of the principal of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars. We exclude the effect of these periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income (loss) because the ultimate cash effect
resulting from changes in exchange rates is inherently uncertain. These gains or charges would only affect near-term cash flows if we redeem or, in certain cases, restructure, our 6.875% PEACS in the next several years, rather than over a longer
term or at maturity in 2010. Because these charges and gains vary based on exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro, these amounts are beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict for future periods. Additionally, we exclude gains or charges associated with remeasurements of
foreign-currency denominated intercompany balances. We exclude these amounts because they are beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict for future periods. This line item also includes $24 million of losses associated with the redemption of our 10% Senior Discount Notes and a
portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and $6 million of losses associated with the termination of our Euro Currency Swap. Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees, Net We exclude equity in losses of equity-method investees, net, because it generates potential non-cash gains or losses, which are based on the financial
results of other companies that we do not manage or control and are difficult to predict. In addition, we believe these non-cash gains and losses are not indicative of our financial or operating performance. Finally, in recent quarters, these
amounts represented insignificant charges and, absent future investments, we expect this trend to continue. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle We exclude cumulative effect of change in accounting principle because it generates non-cash charges, which we believe are not indicative of our financial
or operating performance. Limitations of Pro Forma Net
Income (Loss) Pro forma net income (loss) has the same
limitations as consolidated segment operating income. See “Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)—Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)” above. In addition, when the 6.875% PEACS are retired, whether by
early redemption or restructuring, or at maturity in 2010, the foreign currency effect of changes in the exchange ratio between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro will result in a cash effect. We compensate for this limitation by disclosing the effect of
currency movements on our 6.875% PEACS on our consolidated statements of operations and presenting the fair value of our 6.875% PEACS in the notes to our financial statements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Other.” Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash
provided by (used in) operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and
evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances
where proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows. 36 Table of Contents Limitations of Free Cash Flow Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary
expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. Full year and corresponding quarterly consolidated segment operating
income, and certain cash flow information for 2003, 2002 and 2001, were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2003 Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income $ 361,238 $ 152,936 $ 73,653 $ 67,189 $ 67,460 Pro forma net income $ 256,022 $ 124,979 $ 48,427 $ 42,268 $ 40,348 Consolidated segment operating income as a percentage of net sales 7 % 8 % 6 % 6 % 6 % Pro forma basic earnings per share $ 0.65 $ 0.31 $ 0.12 $ 0.11 $ 0.10 Pro forma diluted earnings per share $ 0.61 $ 0.29 $ 0.11 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 Weighted average shares used in computation of pro forma basic earnings per share 395,479 401,422 397,912 393,876 388,541 Weighted average shares used in computation of pro forma diluted earnings per share 419,352 425,214 422,802 418,138 411,091 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 392,022 $ 480,963 $ 36,817 $ 126,024 $ (251,782 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 236,651 93,489 (60,012 ) 233,668 (30,494 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (331,986 ) (177,242 ) 37,798 (227,876 ) 35,334 Year Ended December 31, 2002 Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income $ 180,102 $ 101,958 $ 27,492 $ 25,994 $ 24,658 Pro forma net income (loss) $ 66,487 $ 75,382 $ 353 $ (4,409 ) $ (4,839 ) Consolidated segment operating income as a percentage of net sales 5 % 7 % 3 % 3 % 3 % Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share $ 0.18 $ 0.20 $ 0.00 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.17 $ 0.19 $ 0.00 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Weighted average used in computation of pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share 378,363 383,702 379,650 376,937 373,031 Weighted average shares used in computation of pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share 399,656 407,056 398,361 376,937 373,031 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 174,291 $ 372,579 $ 38,108 $ 4,637 $ (241,033 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (121,684 ) (36,279 ) 11,082 (93,981 ) (2,506 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 106,894 62,702 1,912 39,434 2,846 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income (loss) $ (45,002 ) $ 58,680 $ (27,072 ) $ (28,009 ) $ (48,601 ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ (157,031 ) $ 34,785 $ (58,005 ) $ (57,528 ) $ (76,283 ) Consolidated segment operating income (loss) as a percentage of net sales (1 )% 5 % (4 )% (4 )% (7 )% Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share $ (0.43 ) $ 0.09 $ (0.16 ) $ (0.16 ) $ (0.21 ) Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share $ (0.43 ) $ 0.09 $ (0.16 ) $ (0.16 ) $ (0.21 ) Weighted average shares used in computation of pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share 364,211 371,420 368,052 359,752 357,424 Weighted average shares used in computation of pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share 364,211 384,045 368,052 359,752 357,424 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (119,782 ) $ 349,120 $ (64,403 ) $ 2,485 $ (406,984 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (253,294 ) (232,630 ) (95,018 ) 29,803 44,551 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 106,881 (2,393 ) 94,466 3,550 11,258 37 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for 2003,
2002, and 2001. Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December 31, 2003 Year Ended December 31, 2002 Year Ended December 31, 2001 As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma (in thousands) (in thousands) (in thousands) Net sales $ 5,263,699 $ — $ 5,263,699 $ 3,932,936 $ — $ 3,932,936 $ 3,122,433 $ — $ 3,122,433 Cost of sales 4,006,531 — 4,006,531 2,940,318 — 2,940,318 2,323,875 — 2,323,875 Gross profit 1,257,168 — 1,257,168 992,618 — 992,618 798,558 — 798,558 Operating expenses: Fulfillment 477,032 — 477,032 392,467 — 392,467 374,250 — 374,250 Marketing 122,787 — 122,787 125,383 — 125,383 138,283 — 138,283 Technology and content 207,809 — 207,809 215,617 — 215,617 241,165 — 241,165 General and administrative 88,302 — 88,302 79,049 — 79,049 89,862 — 89,862 Stock-based compensation 87,751 (87,751 ) — 68,927 (68,927 ) — 4,637 (4,637 ) — Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles 2,752 (2,752 ) — 5,478 (5,478 ) — 181,033 (181,033 ) — Restructuring-related and other 140 (140 ) — 41,573 (41,573 ) — 181,585 (181,585 ) — Total operating expenses 986,573 (90,643 ) 895,930 928,494 (115,978 ) 812,516 1,210,815 (367,255 ) 843,560 Income (loss) from operations 270,595 90,643 361,238 (2) 64,124 115,978 180,102 (2) (412,257 ) 367,255 (45,002 )(2) Interest income 21,955 — 21,955 23,687 — 23,687 29,103 — 29,103 Interest expense (129,979 ) — (129,979 ) (142,925 ) — (142,925 ) (139,232 ) — (139,232 ) Other income (expense), net 2,808 — 2,808 5,623 — 5,623 (1,900 ) — (1,900 ) Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other (129,661 ) 129,661 — (96,273 ) 96,273 — (2,141 ) 2,141 — Total non-operating expenses, net (234,877 ) 129,661 (105,216 ) (209,888 ) 96,273 (113,615 ) (114,170 ) 2,141 (112,029 ) Income (loss) before equity in losses of equity-method investees 35,718 220,304 256,022 (145,764 ) 212,251 66,487 (526,427 ) 369,396 (157,031 ) Equity in losses of equity-method investees, Net (436 ) 436 — (4,169 ) 4,169 — (30,327 ) 30,327 — Income (loss) before change in accounting principle 35,282 220,740 256,022 (149,933 ) 216,420 66,487 (556,754 ) 399,723 (157,031 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — 801 (801 ) — (10,523 ) 10,523 — Net income (loss) $ 35,282 $ 220,740 $ 256,022 $ (149,132 ) $ 215,619 $ 66,487 $ (567,277 ) $ 410,246 $ (157,031 ) 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2003 Year Ended December 31, 2002 Year Ended December 31, 2001 As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma As Reported(1) Adjustments Pro Forma (in thousands) (in thousands) (in thousands) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 0.09 $ 0.56 $ 0.65 $ (0.40 ) $ 0.58 $ 0.18 $ (1.53 ) $ 1.10 $ (0.43 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — 0.01 (0.01 ) — (0.03 ) 0.03 — $ 0.09 $ 0.56 $ 0.65 $ (0.39 ) $ 0.57 $ 0.18 $ (1.56 ) $ 1.13 $ (0.43 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 0.08 $ 0.53 $ 0.61 $ (0.40 ) $ 0.57 $ 0.17 $ (1.53 ) $ 1.10 $ (0.43 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — 0.01 (0.01 ) — (0.03 ) 0.03 — $ 0.08 $ 0.53 $ 0.61 $ (0.39 ) $ 0.56 $ 0.17 $ (1.56 ) $ 1.13 $ (0.43 ) Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings (loss) per share: Basic 395,479 395,479 378,363 378,363 364,211 364,211 Diluted 419,352 419,352 378,363 399,656 364,211 364,211 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 392,022 $ 174,291 $ (119,782 ) Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and Website development (45,963 ) (39,163 ) (50,321 ) Free cash flow $ 346,059 $ 135,128 $ (170,103 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 236,651 $ (121,684 ) $ (253,294 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (331,986 ) $ 106,894 $ 106,881 (1) In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. (2) Consolidated segment operating income. 39 Table of Contents Guidance First quarter of 2004 net sales are expected to be between $1.39 billion and $1.49 billion, or grow between 28% and 38%. For the full year 2004, net sales
are expected to be between $6.20 billion and $6.70 billion. However, any such projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative
disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily
to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our
excess cash in A-rated or higher short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses
in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. 40 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income
securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2003. Amounts were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2003 Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ 675,061 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 675,061 $ 675,061 Weighted average interest rate 2.00 % — — — — — 2.00 % Certificates of deposit 27,395 — — — — — 27,395 27,395 Weighted average interest rate 2.00 % — — — — — 2.00 % Corporate notes and bonds 11,280 2,000 8,520 2,330 — — 24,130 24,997 Weighted average interest rate 1.34 % 1.51 % 1.96 % 1.96 % — — 1.68 % Asset-backed and agency securities 20,700 18,875 30,370 14,440 — — 84,385 85,692 Weighted average interest rate 1.22 % 1.88 % 2.03 % 2.32 % — — 1.83 % Treasury notes and bonds 4,000 6,751 95,770 37,600 — — 144,121 145,778 Weighted average interest rate 1.12 % 1.59 % 1.50 % 2.12 % — — 1.96 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 738,436 $ 27,626 $ 134,660 $ 54,370 $ — $ $ 955,092 $ 958,923 The following table
provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2002. Amounts are as follows (in
thousands, except percentages): 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2002 Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ 437,363 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 437,363 $ 437,363 Weighted average interest rate 2.10 % — — — — — 2.10 % Certificates of deposit 22,326 — — — — — 22,326 22,326 Weighted average interest rate 3.16 % — — — — — 3.16 % Corporate notes and bonds 2,745 26,618 13,493 — — — 42,856 42,941 Weighted average interest rate 2.06 % 1.75 % 2.24 % — — — 1.93 % Asset-backed and agency securities 20,572 175,330 115,605 — — 4,953 316,460 316,715 Weighted average interest rate 2.09 % 1.48 % 2.13 % — — 6.71 % 1.89 % Treasury notes and bonds 9,320 105,385 37,831 22,142 — — 174,678 174,726 Weighted average interest rate 1.42 % 1.48 % 1.91 % 2.10 % — — 1.62 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 492,326 $ 307,333 $ 166,929 $ 22,142 $ — $ 4,953 $ 993,683 $ 994,071 41 Table of Contents At December 31, 2003, we have long-term debt of $1.95 billion primarily associated with our 6.875% PEACS
and 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, which are due in 2010 and 2009. Our payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised of periodic interest payments and principal payments
at maturity. The market value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the
fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was $870 million and $531 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $1.06 billion (principal balance of $1.05 billion) and $925 million (principal balance
of $1.25 billion) at December 31, 2003 and 2002. Foreign
Exchange Risk During 2003, net sales from our
International segment (consisting of www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr, and www.amazon.co.jp ) accounted for 38% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, as well as those
relating to www.amazon.ca , are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites, and include Euros, British Pounds, Yen, and Canadian Dollars. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support
these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances associated with our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon
translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant transaction gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. As a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates during 2003, International segment revenues improved $226 million and our operating results improved $15 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the
balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2003 of $764 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $38 million, $76 million, and $153 million. All investments are classified as
“available for sale,” as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. We have foreign exchange risk related to our 6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance of 690 million Euros ($870 million, based on the
exchange rate as of December 31, 2003). Based on the outstanding 6.875% PEACS’s principal balance, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in losses of approximately $43 million, $87
million, and $174 million, recorded to “Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other.” We are not hedged on interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS. Assuming the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 15% in 2004, we would incur
$2 million, $4 million, and $6 million additional interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2003, our recorded basis in equity securities was $23 million, including $9 million classified as “Marketable securities” and
$15 million classified as “Other equity investments.” We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines in the fair value of such assets below
our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During 2003, we recorded impairment losses totaling $2 million, compared to $8 million during the year ended December 31, 2002, to write-down several of our equity securities to fair value. The fair
values of our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at December 31, 2003 of $86
million (recorded basis of $16 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately $13 million, $26 million and $43 million. 42 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors 44 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 45 Consolidated Statements of Operations 46 Consolidated Balance Sheets 47 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit 48 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 49 43 Table of Contents REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ deficit and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed at 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 45  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 

Item 7 of Part II—”Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements.” Amazon.com was incorporated in 1994 in the state of
Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market
under the symbol “AMZN.” As used herein,
“Amazon.com,” “we,” “our” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon.com, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth’s Biggest Selection. We
seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavor to offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and its affiliates operate seven retail websites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com . We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment
includes the operating results of www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . The International segment includes the operating results of www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr , www.amazon.co.jp, and www.joyo.com . In
addition, we operate www.a9.com and www.alexa.com that enable search and navigation, and www.imdb.com , a comprehensive movie database. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
12—Segment Information.” Business Strategy Our business strategy is to relentlessly focus on customer experience by
offering our customers low prices, convenience, and a wide selection of merchandise. Price We
endeavor to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. We also strive to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can pass along the associated savings to our customers in the
form of lower prices. We enable third-party sellers to offer products on our sites, in many instances alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers, computer scientists, and management team focus on continuous innovation to provide further convenience for our customers. We work
to earn repeat purchases by providing easy-to-use 3 Table of Contents functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, timely customer service, feature rich content, and a trusted transaction environment. Key features of our
websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; Web pages tailored to individual preferences, such as recommendations and notifications; 1-Click ® technology; secure payment systems; image uploads; searching on our websites as well as the Internet; browsing; and the
ability to view selected interior pages and citations, and search the entire contents of many of the books we offer with our “Look Inside the Book” and “Search Inside the Book” features. Our community of online customers also
creates feature-rich content, including product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, buying guides, and wedding and baby registries. We endeavor to fulfill customer orders quickly, and to provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. We
communicate our fulfillment promise in several ways, such as presenting up-to-date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, as well as delivery shipment notifications. Additionally, customers
can use the “your account” website features to track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including
through our U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses; through fulfillment centers operated under co-sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www.amazon.co.jp ; through outsourced fulfillment
providers, including our fulfillment provider supporting www.amazon.ca; and through other third-party fulfillment arrangements. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by several co-sourcing customer service
arrangements with third parties. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Effect of
Exchange Rates” for a table demonstrating the effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our 6.875% PEACS are denominated in Euros, not U.S. Dollars. We remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS quarterly based on fluctuations
in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio and record gains or 13 Table of Contents losses in “Remeasurements and other” on our consolidated statements of operations. As a result, increases in the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar
increase the U.S. dollar amount we owe as interest and principal. Furthermore, we hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities in Euros, British Pounds, Yen, Canadian Dollars and Chinese Yuan. Accordingly, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens
compared to these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Investments and the Consideration We Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us to a Number of Risks In the past, we have entered into commercial agreements with other
companies, including strategic alliances whereby we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange for our services we received cash, equity securities of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such as website traffic. The amount of
compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other company. In some cases, we have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for equity
securities of that company. We may make similar investments in the future. To the extent we have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our ultimate realization of amounts we have
received as compensation for services. In the past, we amended
several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial agreements. Although these
amendments did not affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts was changed to correspond with the terms of the amended agreements. To the extent we
believe any such amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed or
determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. Our investments in equity securities are included in “Marketable securities” and “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets.
We regularly review all of our investments in public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment below our accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we
reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In recent years, securities of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. We may conclude in
future quarters that the fair values of our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. As of December 31, 2004, our recorded basis in equity securities was $27 million, including $12 million classified as “Marketable
securities” and $15 million classified as “Other assets.” The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief
Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack of Integration and Redundancy in Our
Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access to our
websites directly affects the volume of goods we sell and the services we offer and thus affects our net sales. We experience occasional system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or
providing services to third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to continually add additional software and hardware and upgrade in an effective manner our systems and network
infrastructure, it could cause system interruption and adversely affect our operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood,
power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss
of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it would make our product offerings less attractive to our customers and our service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do
have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits
to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy. We Face Significant Inventory Risk We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer
tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered
and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product selection, and accurately forecast product demand. A failure to optimize inventory within
our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost by requiring us to make split shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our third-party services relationships with Toysrus.com,
Babiesrus.com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, and bear the financial risk of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or
optimize or maintain access to inventory, we would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may
not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect
our operating results. We May Not Be Able to Adequately
Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective
trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available online. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business.
Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our
trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized
use of our proprietary rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the 15 Table of Contents steps we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire
equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate
and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents, and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to
be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of
significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be
available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce
services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. We Have a Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a relatively short operating history and, as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price
of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • general economic conditions; • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the Internet and the e-commerce industry; • fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for Internet-related companies in particular; • quarterly variations in operating results; • new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in Internet regulation; • changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; • additions or departures of key personnel; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs or closures of facilities; • changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce companies; and • transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing
opportunities. Future volatility in our stock price could
force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. 16 Table of Contents Government Regulation of the Internet and E-commerce Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm
Our Business We are subject to general business
regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may
cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the
characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of
these issues may harm our business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate “auctions” and “auctioneers” and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other consumer-to-consumer online
markets, including certain aspects of Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Us to Liability for Past Sales and Cause Our Future Sales to Decrease We do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of
most of our goods into states other than Washington, North Dakota, and Kansas. Under some of our commercial agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states
in accordance with that company’s instructions. We may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion of those
networks, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. We collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) as applicable on goods
and services sold by us that are ordered on our international sites. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in e-commerce. A successful
assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional
retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently,
decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering
various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and resulted in a reversal of
its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than Washington, North Dakota, and Kansas. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative
burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. Our
Vendor Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks Although we continue to increase the number of vendors that supply products to us and no vendor accounts for 10% or more of our inventory purchases, we have significant vendors that are important to our sourcing. We do not have long-term
contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may
not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. 17 Table of Contents We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We
Sell Some of the products we sell may expose us to
product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also sell products using our e-commerce platform
that may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have sufficient resources to protect themselves from such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be
adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our distributors, manufacturers, and third party sellers do
not indemnify us from product liability. We Could Be
Liable for Breaches of Security on Our Website A
fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card
transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. We Could Be Liable for Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware
that governmental agencies have investigated the provision of online payment services and could require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under Merchants@, Marketplace and certain other of our programs, we may be unable to prevent
sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from the sellers’ descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, we reimburse buyers
for payments up to certain limits in these situations and as our third party sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of our A2Z
Guarantee or otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our payments program depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, our payments program and
our businesses that use it may not be viable. Finally, we may be unable to prevent sellers in our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant.com, and certain other programs from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods in an unlawful manner, or violating
the proprietary rights of others, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. We May Not Be Able to Adapt Quickly Enough to Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be able to
adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could
render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet as a Medium for Commerce Is Subject to Uncertainty Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is subject to uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough to meet the increased levels
of demand. In addition, activity that diminishes the experience for Internet users, such as spyware, spoof emails, viruses and spam directed at Internet users, as well as viruses and “denial of service” attacks directed at Internet
companies and service providers, may discourage people from using the Internet, including for commerce. Furthermore, newer users of the Internet could be less active e-commerce customers compared to our earlier customers. If use of the Internet as a
medium for commerce grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than expected and our business could be harmed. 18 Table of Contents Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of March 1, 2005: Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 41 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board Richard L. Dalzell 47 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer Jeffrey Holden 36 Senior Vice President, Discovery Jason Kilar 33 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software Mark S. Peek 47 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini 44 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Kal Raman 36 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Hardlines Retail Mark V. Stabingas 42 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development and Services Sales Thomas J. Szkutak 44 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey A. Wilke 38 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations L. Michelle Wilson 42 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey P.
Bezos. Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as President from founding until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to
the present. Richard L.
Dalzell. Mr. Dalzell has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November 2001. From October 2000 until November 2001, Mr. Dalzell was Senior Vice
President and Chief Information Officer and, from August 1997 until October 2000, he was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Dalzell was Vice President of Information Systems at Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Jeffrey Holden. Mr. Holden has
served as Senior Vice President, Discovery, since March 2005. He served as Senior Vice President, Consumer Applications, from April 2004 until March 2005, as Vice President, Consumer Applications, from April 2002 to April 2004, and as Director,
Automated Merchandising and Discovery from February 2000 to April 2002. Mr. Holden joined Amazon.com in May 1997 as Director, Supply Chain Systems. Jason Kilar. Mr. Kilar has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software, since May 2003. From February
2002 to May 2003, he served as Vice President, Worldwide Application Software. From October 2001 until February 2002, he served as Vice President, Marketplace, and from February 2001 until October 2001, he served as Vice President, Books, Music, and
Video & DVD. Mr. Kilar joined Amazon.com in May, 1997 as a Product Manager. Mark S. Peek. Mr. Peek has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July 2002. From November 2000 to July 2002, he served as Vice President, Financial Planning and
Analysis, and from April 2000 to November 2000, he served as Vice President, Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Peek was an audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. Mr. Piacentini has served as
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November 2001. From joining Amazon.com in February 2000 until November 2001, Mr. Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr.
Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, of Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer’s operations in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. 19 Table of Contents Kal Raman. Mr. Raman has served as Senior Vice President of Worldwide
Hardlines Retail since September 2004. Previously, Mr. Raman held a variety of positions at drugstore.com, including President and CEO from April 2001 to June 2004, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from November 1999 to April 2001,
Senior Vice President, Operations and Technology and chief Operating Officer from May 1999 to November 1999, Vice President, Technology and Operations and Chief Information Officer from March 1999 to May 1999, and Vice President, Technology and
Chief Information Officer from August 1998 to March 1999. Mark V. Stabingas. Mark Stabingas has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development and Services Sales since April 2004. Mr. Stabingas served as Vice President for Worldwide Business
Development and Services Sales from June 2002 to April 2004, Vice President of Business Development Finance from November 2001 to June 2002, Vice President, U.S. Stores Finance from February 2001 to November 2001, and Vice President for Financial
Planning and Analysis from October 2000 to February 2001. Previously, he held a variety of positions at PepsiCo, Inc. including Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development. Thomas J. Szkutak. Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since November 2002. Previously, Mr. Szkutak held a variety of positions at General Electric Co., including Chief Financial Officer of GE Lighting from September 2001 to September 2002, and Finance Director of GE Plastics Europe from March 1999 to
September 2001. Jeffrey A.
Wilke. Mr. Wilke has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations since January 2002. From October 2000 until January 2002, Mr. Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior to that he had been Vice
President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon.com in September 1999. Previously, Mr. Wilke held a variety of positions at AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager of the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from
March 1999 to September 1999 and General Manager of the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August 1997 to February 1999. L. Michelle Wilson. Ms. Wilson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since June 2003. She
served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel, and Secretary from March 2001 until June 2003, as Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from July 1999 until March 2001, and Associate General Counsel, Mergers and
Acquisitions and Finance from March 1999 until July 1999. Previously, Ms. Wilson was a partner in the law firm of Perkins Coie LLP. Board of Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey P. Bezos 41 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board Tom A. Alberg 65 Managing Director of Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown 64 Chief Scientist of Xerox Corporation (retired) and Visiting Scholar at the Annenberg Center for Communication at the University of Southern
California L. John Doerr 53 General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers William B. Gordon 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer of Electronic Arts, Inc. Myrtle S. Potter 46 President, Commercial Operations, Genentech, Inc. Thomas O. Ryder 60 Chairman and CEO of Reader’s Digest Association, Inc. Patricia Q. Stonesifer 48 President and Co-Chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 20 Table of Contents   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities On October 26, 2004, De Anza Properties exercised a portion of their warrant
and received 4,943 shares of our common stock at a per share exercise price of $6.1588. We assumed this warrant obligation in connection with a 1998 acquisition. The shares were issued in reliance on an exemption from registration under Section
4(a)(2) under the 1933 Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities None. 24 Table of Contents   

  Item
8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are
not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 (in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 6,921,124 $ 5,263,699 $ 3,932,936 $ 3,122,433 $ 2,761,983 Income (loss) before change in accounting principle 588,451 35,282 (149,933 ) (556,754 ) (1,411,273 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — 801 (10,523 ) Net income (loss) 588,451 35,282 (149,132 ) (567,277 ) (1,411,273 ) Basic earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principal $ 1.45 $ 0.09 $ (0.40 ) $ (1.53 ) $ (4.02 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principal — — 0.01 (0.03 ) — Basic earnings per share (1) $ 1.45 $ 0.09 $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) $ (4.02 ) Diluted earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principal $ 1.39 $ 0.08 $ (0.40 ) $ (1.53 ) $ (4.02 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principal — — 0.01 (0.03 ) — Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.39 $ 0.08 $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) $ (4.02 ) Shares used in computation of earnings (loss) per share: Basic 405,926 395,479 378,363 364,211 350,873 Diluted 424,757 419,352 378,363 364,211 350,873 Balance Sheet and Other Data: Total assets $ 3,248,508 $ 2,162,033 $ 1,990,449 $ 1,637,547 $ 2,135,169 Long-term debt and other 1,855,319 1,945,439 2,277,305 2,156,133 2,127,464 (1) For further discussion of earnings (loss) per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as
anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ
materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the 25 Table of Contents amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales
derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the
degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and
uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 2 The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 3 Inventory turnover is the quotient of annualized cost of sales to average inventory over five quarters. 4 Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to cost of sales, multiplied by the number of days in the period. 27 Table of Contents liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most
difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have
other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ
significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Revenue Recognition We
recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or
determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered
item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria of Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a
Principal Versus Net as an Agent , in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary party obligated in a
transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined
using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Under our Syndicated Stores arrangements, we record gross product sales and costs since we own the inventory,
set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns a sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title
passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best
estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as
revenue over the subscription term. We periodically provide
incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase,
and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to
purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Net
sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from
third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through our Merchant.com program are recognized when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such
commissions using historical experience. 28 Table of Contents Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in “Net sales” and, excluding amounts
earned from third-party sellers where we don’t provide fulfillment services, amounted to $420 million, $372 million, and $365 million for 2004, 2003, and 2002. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the
lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or
liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our Merchants@ and Merchant.com programs. In those
arrangements, as well as other product sales by third parties, the third-party maintains ownership of the related products. Internal-Use Software Included in fixed assets is the capitalized cost of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our
websites and processes supporting our business. In accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use,” we capitalize costs incurred
during the application development stage related to the development of internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life of two years. Costs incurred related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed
as incurred. During 2004, 2003, and 2002 we capitalized $44
million, $30 million, and $25 million of costs associated with development of internal-use software, which is offset by amortization of previously capitalized amounts of $30 million, $24 million, and $26 million. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things,
anticipated disposition of lease obligations. Key variables in determining such estimates include anticipated timing of sublease rentals, estimates of sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and
other related costs. We periodically evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our estimates based on currently-available information. Additionally, we may determine, as we did in 2004, that certain of the office space vacated as part of our 2001
restructuring, which we have been unable to sublease due to poor real estate market conditions, may be necessary for our future needs. To the extent we elect to utilize this office space, we adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify
future payments to the corresponding operating expense categories on the consolidated statements of operations. Currency Effect on Intercompany Balances A provision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses
arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, in which settlement is not planned or anticipated in the foreseeable future, be excluded in the determination of net income. Our international operations are
financed, in part, by the U.S. parent company. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2003, currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded to stockholders’ deficit as translation adjustments and not included in the determination of
net income because we intended to permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we made the decision that these amounts would be repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain or loss arising
from remeasurements of intercompany balances is required to be recorded in the determination of net 29 Table of Contents income. In accordance with SFAS No. 52, currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter of 2003 continue to be included as a component of
“Accumulated other comprehensive income” on our consolidated balance sheets. Resulting from the remeasurement of intercompany balances using exchange rates at the reporting dates, we recorded gains of $41 million and $36 million for 2004
and 2003. Repayments among the entities during 2004 were $210 million. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets SFAS 109,
“ Accounting for Income Taxes,” requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when
assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting
purposes, and other relevant factors. At December 31, 2004, our net deferred tax assets are $363 million, comprised of approximately $270 million relating to our net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), with the remaining portion related
to temporary timing differences between tax and financial reporting. Classification of deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories is based on the expected timing of realization, and the valuation allowance is allocated on a
pro-rata basis. We had a net tax benefit in 2004 of $233
million resulting primarily from the effect of changes in our valuation assessment of deferred tax assets during 2004. In connection with this assessment, we also recorded a net credit to “Stockholders’ Deficit” of $106 million on our
consolidated balance sheet in 2004. The range of possible judgments relating to the valuation of our deferred tax assets is very wide. For example, had we determined that the weight of available evidence did not support a decision that a portion of
our deferred tax asset will be realized, the amount recorded to “Provision (benefit) for income taxes” would have been an expense of $12 million (rather than a benefit of $233 million) for 2004. Alternatively, if we had concluded that the
weight of available evidence supported a decision that substantially all of our deferred tax assets may be realized, we would have recorded a substantially larger credit to “Stockholders’ Deficit.” Significant judgment is required in making this assessment, and it is very
difficult to predict when, if ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion of our deferred tax assets are realizable. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 . Free cash
flow was $477 million for 2004 compared to $346 million for 2003, an increase of 38%. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital. Working
capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, the timing of expense payments, discounts offered by vendors, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations
and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which were $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion at the end of 2004 and 2003. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $970 million and $764 million at the end of 2004 and 2003, and were
primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Cash provided by
operating activities was $567 million, $392 million, and $174 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers and third-party sellers, offset by cash payments we make to suppliers of
products and services, employee compensation, credit card transaction fees, bad debt, and interest payments on our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from 1 Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website
development, both of which are presented on our statements of cash flows. 30 Table of Contents customers and third-party sellers generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables
from customers settle quickly. Cash paid to inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost of sales, adjusted for increases or decreases in inventory and payable levels. During 2004, payments to product merchandise suppliers,
which do not include payments to transportation suppliers, totaled $4.6 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion over the prior year. The increase in payments to product merchandise suppliers corresponds with cost of sales, and with our efforts to add
product categories, increase selection of products we offer for sale, improve availability in both existing and new product categories, and take advantage of additional discounts offered to us by suppliers, and is also affected by foreign exchange
rates. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities
corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Cash used in investing activities was $318 million in 2004 and $122 in 2002,
while cash provided by investing activities was $237 million in 2003 with the variability caused primarily by maturities of marketable securities. Our capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development, were $89 million,
$46 million, and $39 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investment in development of new features and product offerings on our websites over time. We believe our expenditures for repairs
and improvements are sufficient to keep our facilities and equipment in suitable operating condition. In September 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Joyo.com at a purchase price of $75 million, including a cash payment (net of cash
acquired) of $71 million, the assumption of employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Cash paid in connection with this acquisition is classified as cash provided by (used in) investing activities on our consolidated statements of cash
flows. The operating results of Joyo.com did not have a significant effect on consolidated results for 2004. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies—Business Acquisition.” Cash used in
financing activities was $97 million in 2004 and $332 million in 2003. This compares to cash provided by financing activities of $107 million in 2002. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises of employee
stock options, which were $60 million in 2004, $163 million in 2003, and $122 million for 2002. We expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options will decline over time as we continue issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for
stock-based awards. Cash outflows from financing activities result from repayments of long-term debt and payments on capital lease obligations, which were $157 million in 2004, $495 million in 2003, and $15 million in 2002. During 2004, we paid $154
million, which includes a redemption premium of $4 million, to redeem a portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009 (“4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes”). See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt and Other.” In 2004 we recorded a primarily non-cash net benefit of $233 million to “Provision (benefit) for income taxes” relating primarily to our valuation of deferred tax assets. We expect our cash taxes paid in 2005 to be approximately
$25 million, compared with $4 million in 2004. On March 7,
2005, we redeemed 200 million Euros principal of our 6.875% PEACS for a cash payment of $266 million, which includes $1 million of interest from and including February 16 through March 6, 2005. Under the Indenture, no premium was required. As of
March 7, 2005, the outstanding principal amount of our 6.875% PEACS was 490 million Euros ($649 million using the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on that date). Additionally, in March 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a new debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt
repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to an aggregate of $500 million of our outstanding 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS. 31 Table of Contents Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are denominated in Euros, our U.S. Dollar equivalent
interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. We currently do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency effects on our interest or principal obligations relating to the 6.875% PEACS, and, as a
result, any fluctuations in the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest expense and, to the extent we make principal payments, the amount of U.S. Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest
payable on our 6.875% PEACS is due in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses on currency movements until the date of the interest payment. Gains or losses on the remeasurement of our Euro-denominated interest payable
are classified as “Other expense (income), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments as of December 31, 2004: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other (1) $ 128 $ 1,250 $ 340 $ 373 $ 899,760 $ 951,089 $ 1,852,940 Debt interest (1) 107,026 107,026 107,026 107,026 85,656 64,287 578,047 Capital leases 1,298 510 22 — — — 1,830 Operating leases (2) 61,222 64,390 55,678 51,990 43,184 186,737 463,201 Purchase obligations (3) 227,950 — — — — — 227,950 Total operating and capital commitments 397,624 173,176 163,066 159,389 1,028,600 1,202,113 3,123,968 Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net of estimated sublease income (4) 3,057 1,903 1,843 1,497 1,374 1,305 10,979 Other 1,910 — — — — — 1,910 Total restructuring-related commitments 4,967 1,903 1,843 1,497 1,374 1,305 12,889 Total commitments $ 402,591 $ 175,079 $ 164,909 $ 160,886 $ 1,029,974 $ 1,203,418 $ 3,136,857 (1) The principal payment due in 2010 and the annual interest payments due under our 6.875% PEACS fluctuate based on the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, which, at December 31, 2004,
was 1.3552. As of December 31, 2004, our principal debt obligation for the 6.875% PEACS has increased by $255 million since its issuance in February 2000 due to fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio. Additionally, on March 7, 2005, we
redeemed 200 million Euros of our outstanding 6.875% PEACS, which is not reflected in the table above. (2) Pursuant to SFAS No. 13, “Accounting for Leases , ” lease agreements are categorized at their inception as either operating or capital leases depending on
certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for us, pursuant to SFAS No. 13 they are not reflected on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2004, we have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and
real estate of $463 million. If we had applied to our operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not be in accordance with GAAP, we would have recorded approximately $335 million of additional obligations on
our balance sheet at December 31, 2004. (3) Consists primarily of legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory. Legally-binding commitments associated with non-inventory purchases are not significant. (4) Net of an estimated $20 million in sublease rentals. At December 31, 2004, we had signed sublease agreements totaling $13 million. 32 Table of Contents Pledged Securities We are required to pledge a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee
certain of our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required to be pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases; with fluctuations in our market capitalization, which is common
shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock; and based on our credit-rating. The change in the total amount of collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby Letters of Credit (1) Line of Credit (2) Real Estate Leases (3) Total (in thousands) Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 60,799 $ — $ 25,936 $ 86,735 Net change in collateral pledged (10,383 ) 1,933 (4,412 ) (12,862 ) Balance at December 31, 2004 (4) $ 50,416 $ 1,933 $ 21,524 $ 73,873 (1) Pursuant to available standby letter-of-credit facilities totaling $151 million. (2) Pursuant to an available line of credit totaling $10 million. (3) The required amount of collateral to be pledged on certain of our real estate leases fluctuates based on our market capitalization. At December 31, 2004, our market capitalization
was $18.1 billion. If our market capitalization decreases, the required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase $5 million (if market capitalization is less than $18 billion but more than $13 billion) or $11 million (if our market
capitalization is less than $13 billion). (4) Includes $10 million of cash equivalents pledged as collateral. See “Note 2—Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.” We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies–Stock-based
Compensation” for our SFAS No. 123 pro forma disclosures using fair value accounting treatment. 39 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands) Stock awards—variable accounting (1) $ 4,577 $ 51,875 $ 60,130 Fixed accounting (2): Restricted stock units (3) 48,625 30,691 3,913 Restricted stock (4) 4,500 5,185 4,884 Total stock-based compensation $ 57,702 $ 87,751 $ 68,927 (1) Variable accounting treatment results in expense or contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based on the quoted price of our common stock and
vesting schedules of underlying awards. To the extent stock options are forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense is reversed as an offset to “Stock-based compensation.” (2) The fair value of awards is determined at grant date based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the
service period using the accelerated method under FIN No. 28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans . To the extent awards are forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding previously
recognized expense is reversed as an offset to stock-based compensation. (3) Since October 2002, we have awarded restricted stock units as our primary form of stock-based compensation. (4) Includes expense associated with matching contributions of 0.07 million and 0.03 million shares of our common stock under our 401(k) savings plan during 2004 and 2003. No matching
contributions were made in 2002. At December 31,
2004, we had 25 million stock awards outstanding, including 18 million stock options with a $12.98 weighted average exercise price; 6 million restricted stock units; and 1 million shares of restricted stock. Common shares outstanding (which include
restricted stock) plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units totaled 434 million and 433 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003. For additional information about our stock-based compensation and awards see 

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-based Compensation.” Other Operating Expense (Income) Other operating expense (income) was $(8) million, $3 million, and $47 million for 2004, 2003, and 2002, which includes restructuring-related expenses
(credits) and amortization of other intangibles. Restructuring-related expenses (credits) were $(9) million, $0 million, and $42 million; and amortization of other intangibles was $1 million, $3 million, and $5 million for 2004, 2003, and 2002. During 2004, we determined that certain of the office space
previously vacated as part of our 2001 restructuring, which we had been unable to sublease due to poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. We have reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting in a gain of $13
million in 2004. Lease-related payments for this office space, approximately $0.8 million per quarter, are expensed over the lease period and classified to the corresponding operating expense categories on the consolidated statements of operations. In 2004, we streamlined our organizational structure in France
to reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused on eliminating French office positions in managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number of employees affected totaled 52 and resulted in severance costs of
$ 4 million classified in “Other operating expense (income)” on the consolidated statements of operations. 40 Table of Contents Cash payments resulting from our operational restructurings were $9 million, $26 million, and $45 million
for 2004, 2003, and 2002. Based on currently available information, we estimate the remaining restructuring-related cash outflows will be as follows: Leases Other Total (in thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2005 $ 3,057 $ 1,910 $ 4,967 2006 1,903 — 1,903 2007 1,843 — 1,843 2008 1,497 — 1,497 2009 1,374 — 1,374 Thereafter 1,305 — 1,305 Total estimated cash outflows (1) $ 10,979 $ 1,910 $ 12,889 (1) Cash flows are presented net of an estimated $20 million in sublease rentals. At December 31, 2004, we had signed contractual sublease agreements totaling $13 million. For additional information about our operational
restructuring, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Other Operating Expense (Income).” Income from Operations Our income from operations was $440 million, $271 million, and $64 million during 2004, 2003, and 2002. These increases primarily result from net sales
and gross profit growth and declines in operating expenses as a percent of net sales as we leverage the fixed cost portion of our cost structure and seek to improve our variable costs through process efficiencies. Additionally, in 2004 and 2003
operating income improved from year-over-year reductions of $47 million and $8 million in stock-based compensation expense associated with variable accounting, offset by increases in stock-based compensation of $18 million and $27 million associated
with restricted stock units. Net Interest Expense The primary component of our net interest expense is
the interest we incur on our long-term debt instruments, including $900 million principal balance of our 4.75% U.S. Convertible Subordinated Notes and 690 million Euros ($935 million based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2004) of 6.875% PEACS
at December 31, 2004. Interest expense was $107 million, $130 million, and $143 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, with declines primarily relating to principal repayments of $150 million and $464 million in 2004 and 2003. At December 31, 2004, our total long-term indebtedness was $1.86 billion
compared to $1.95 billion a year ago. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt and Other.” We generally invest our excess cash in “A” rated or higher short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds.
Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them. 41 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands) Gains on sales of marketable securities, net $ 586 $ 9,598 $ 5,700 Foreign-currency transaction losses, net (5,214 ) (3,043 ) (1,086 ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net (73 ) (41 ) 309 Total other income (expense), net $ (4,701 ) $ 6,514 $ 4,923 Foreign-currency
transaction losses primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS. Since these payments are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable (which is paid annually in February) is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in
exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands) Foreign-currency losses on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS (1) $ (65,375 ) $ (140,130 ) $ (103,136 ) Gains on sales of Euro-denominated investments, net 9,469 5,827 2,227 Gains on sales of equity investments, net 15,406 796 13,044 Loss on redemption of long-term debt (5,672 ) (23,829 ) — Loss on termination of Euro Currency Swap (2) — (5,880 ) — Foreign-currency effect on intercompany balances (3) 40,883 35,574 — Other-than-temporary impairments and other (4) 4,465 (2,455 ) (12,577 ) Total remeasurements and other $ (824 ) $ (130,097 ) $ (100,442 ) (1) Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to “Remeasurements and other” on our consolidated
statements of operations. (2) Represents the remaining basis at date of termination of our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated as a cash flow hedge of a portion of our 6.875% PEACS principal and
interest. (3) Represents the gains associated with the remeasurement of intercompany balances due to changes in foreign exchange rates. See “

  Item 8 of Part II—Financial
Statements—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (4) Included in 2004 is a gain of $6 million relating to the settlement of a contractual dispute, and included in 2003 and 2002 is $0.4 million and $4 million of losses from
equity-method investees. No equity-method losses or income were recorded in 2004. Income Taxes We record a tax provision or benefit for current and deferred U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes for all periods presented, classified as
“Provision (benefit) for income taxes” on the consolidated statements of operations. We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be
realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, 42 Table of Contents including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, the carryforward periods available to us
for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment, and it is very difficult to predict when, if ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion of our deferred tax assets
are realizable. We had a net current tax benefit in 2004 of
$233 million, representing $0.57 and $0.55 of basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from the effect of changes in our valuation assessment of deferred tax assets during 2004. In connection with this assessment we also recorded a
net credit to “Stockholders’ Deficit” of $106 million on our consolidated balance sheet in 2004. At December 31, 2004, our net deferred tax assets are $363 million, comprised of approximately $270 million relating to our NOLs, with the remaining
portion related to temporary timing differences between tax and financial reporting. Classification of deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories is based on the expected timing of realization, and the valuation allowance is
allocated ratably. At December 31, 2004, our gross deferred
tax assets related to our NOLs were approximately $800 million (relating to approximately $2.6 billion of NOLs), offset by a valuation allowance of approximately $530 million due to uncertainty about their future realization. If in the future, we
determine that the remaining $530 million of NOL deferred tax assets is more likely than not to be realizable, substantially all would be credited to “Stockholders’ Deficit” rather than the income statement since they primarily relate
to tax-deductible stock-based compensation in excess of amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. The majority of our NOLs expire after 2016. We also have approximately $70 million of deferred tax assets relating to approximately $225 million capital loss carryforwards that expire in 2005 and
thereafter. Due to uncertainty regarding future realization, we have provided a full valuation allowance for this portion of our deferred tax asset. Additionally, we expect net income for 2005 to decline because we expect a tax provision in 2005 rather than the large tax benefit we received in 2004. We
expect our cash taxes paid in 2005 to be approximately $25 million, compared with $4 million in 2004 and $2 million in 2003. Net Income Net income was $588 million and $35 million in 2004 and 2003, and net loss was $149 million in 2002. We believe that our reported net income for 2004
should not be viewed, on its own, as a material positive event, and the year-over-year increases in net income of $553 million and $184 million in 2004 and 2003 are not necessarily predictive of our future results for a variety of reasons. For
example, in 2004 we had a net benefit from income taxes of $233 million, representing $0.57 and $0.55 of basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from changes in valuation of deferred tax assets associated with our net operating
loss carryforwards attributable to continuing operations. Additionally, the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances resulted in significant gains and charges associated with the effect of movements in currency exchange rates.
Accordingly, we encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate the effect on our operating trends of these items since future income taxes and change in currency exchange rates may create significant variability in our future operating
results. 43 Table of Contents Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Exchange-rate effect on (1): Net sales $ 275,653 $ 232,370 $ 46,950 Gross profit 52,183 46,392 9,930 Operating expenses 32,011 32,054 6,039 Operating income 20,172 14,338 3,891 Net interest expense and other 8,801 11,135 2,393 Remeasurements and other (2) 15,023 98,729 100,879 Net income (loss) (3,652 ) (95,526 ) (99,381 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ (0.01 ) $ (0.23 ) $ (0.26 ) (1) Represents the effect on reported results due to year-over-year changes in exchange rates. Absent year-over-year changes in exchange rates, reported amounts would have been lower
(higher) by these amounts. (2) Includes foreign-currency gains (losses) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances, and realized currency-related gains associated with sales of Euro-denominated
investments held by a U.S. functional-currency subsidiary. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Remeasurements and Other.” Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Free Cash Flow Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and
other provisions of the 1934 Act define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of “Free cash flow” meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in
addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when
viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not
rely on any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which we
reconcile to “Cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based
on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In
limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less
than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due
to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions such as
our 2004 acquisition of Joyo.com (see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies”). Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a
complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. 44 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, “Cash
provided by operating activities” for 2004, 2003, and 2002 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 566,560 $ 392,022 $ 174,291 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (89,133 ) (45,963 ) (39,163 ) Free cash flow $ 477,427 $ 346,059 $ 135,128 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (317,631 ) $ 236,651 $ (121,684 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (97,292 ) $ (331,986 ) $ 106,894 Guidance The Company provided guidance on February 2, 2005 in its earnings release
furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter 2005 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $1.80 billion and $1.95 billion, or grow between 18% and 27%, compared with first quarter 2004. • Operating income is expected to be between $80 million and $110 million, or decline between (28%) and 0%, compared with first quarter 2004, assuming, among other things, that the
Company adopts SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2005, stock-based compensation is $25 million, and there are no further revisions to restructuring-related estimates. Full Year 2005 Expectations • Net sales are expected to be between $8.05 billion and $8.65 billion, or grow between 16% and 25%. • Operating income is expected to be between $385 million and $510 million, or between (13%) and 16% growth, compared with 2004, assuming, among other things, that the Company adopts
SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2005, stock-based compensation is $115 million, and there are no further revisions to restructuring-related estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative
disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” above. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent
and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in “A” rated or higher, short- to intermediate-term fixed
income securities and money market mutual 45 Table of Contents funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to
sell securities that have declined in fair value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at
December 31, 2004 (in thousands, except percentages): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2004 Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ 122,073 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 122,073 $ 124,215 Weighted average interest rate 2.10 % — — — — — 2.10 % Certificates of deposit 496,412 — — — — — 496,412 496,412 Weighted average interest rate 2.52 % — — — — — 2.52 % Corporate notes and bonds 240,213 3,760 2,900 8,000 13,390 — 268,263 275,058 Weighted average interest rate 2.25 % 3.45 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % — 2.43 % Asset-backed and agency securities 136,202 134,754 21,127 21,570 8,500 — 322,153 323,245 Weighted average interest rate 2.32 % 4.01 % 3.58 % 3.00 % 3.00 % — 3.17 % Treasury notes and bonds 11,845 67,205 32,620 21,100 10,500 — 143,270 140,728 Weighted average interest rate 2.43 % 2.87 % 3.18 % 3.00 % 3.00 % — 2.93 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,006,745 $ 205,719 $ 56,647 $ 50,670 $ 32,390 $ — $ 1,352,171 $ 1,359,658 46 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income
securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2003 (in thousands, except percentages): 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2003 Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ 675,061 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 675,061 $ 675,061 Weighted average interest rate 2.00 % — — — — — 2.00 % Certificates of deposit 27,395 — — — — — 27,395 27,395 Weighted average interest rate 2.00 % — — — — — 2.00 % Corporate notes and bonds 11,280 2,000 8,520 2,330 — — 24,130 24,997 Weighted average interest rate 1.34 % 1.51 % 1.96 % 1.96 % — — 1.68 % Asset-backed and agency securities 20,700 18,875 30,370 14,440 — — 84,385 85,692 Weighted average interest rate 1.22 % 1.88 % 2.03 % 2.32 % — — 1.83 % Treasury notes and bonds 4,000 6,751 95,770 37,600 — — 144,121 145,778 Weighted average interest rate 1.12 % 1.59 % 1.50 % 2.12 % — — 1.96 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 738,436 $ 27,626 $ 134,660 $ 54,370 $ — $ — $ 955,092 $ 958,923 At December 31, 2004,
we had long-term debt of $1.86 billion primarily associated with our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2009 and 2010. The fair value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates,
increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices at prevailing exchange rates, the fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was 691 million Euros ($936 million) and 690 million
Euros ($870 million) at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, and the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $907 million (outstanding principal of $900 million) and $1.06 billion (outstanding principal of $1.05 billion) at
December 31, 2004 and 2003. Foreign Exchange Risk During 2004, net sales from our International segment
(consisting of www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , www.amazon.fr , www.amazon.co.jp , and www.joyo.com ) accounted for 44% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, as
well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and include Euros, British Pounds, Yen, Canadian Dollars, and Chinese Yuan.
The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our
internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or
losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2004, International segment revenues improved $271 million and our operating results improved $20 million in comparison
with the prior year. 47 Table of Contents We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2004 of $970 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $49 million, $97 million, and $194
million. All investments are classified as “available for sale,” as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities . We have foreign exchange risk related to our 6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2004
of 690 million Euros ($935 million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2004). Due to fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, which we cannot predict, our principal debt obligation under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in
February 2000 has increased by $255 million as of December 31, 2004. Based on the outstanding 6.875% PEACS’ principal balance, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in additional losses of
approximately $47 million, $94 million, and $187 million, recorded to “Remeasurements and other.” Additionally, we have not hedged our interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS to protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the
U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 20% in 2004, we would incur $3 million, $6 million, and $13 million additional annual interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange. See “Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional information on the
effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. See also  

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 15—Subsequent Events (Unaudited).” Investment Risk As of December 31, 2004, our recorded basis in equity securities (including
both publicly-traded and private companies) was $27 million, including $12 million classified as “Marketable securities,” and $15 million classified as “Other assets.” We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and
identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines in the fair value of such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values of our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to
volatility of the stock market in general, company-specific circumstances, and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at December 31, 2004 of $64 million (recorded basis of
$20 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately $10 million, $19 million, and $32 million. 48 Table of Contents 

  Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 50 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 51 Consolidated Statements of Operations 52 Consolidated Balance Sheets 53 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit 54 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55 49 Table of Contents REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders’ deficit, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 44  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 

Item 7 of Part II—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements.” Amazon.com was incorporated in 1994 in the state of
Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market
under the symbol “AMZN.” As used herein,
“Amazon.com,” “we,” “our” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon.com, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth’s Biggest Selection. We
seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavor to offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and its affiliates operate retail websites, including: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com . We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment
includes the operating results of www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . The International segment includes the operating results of www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr , www.amazon.co.jp, and www.joyo.com . In
addition, we operate other websites, including www.a9.com and www.alexa.com that enable search and navigation; www.imdb.com , a comprehensive movie database; and Amazon Mechanical Turk at www.mturk.com which provides a web
service for computers to integrate a network of humans directly into their processes. The operating results of these websites are included in our North America segment. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 12—Segment Information.” Business Strategy Our business strategy is to relentlessly focus on
customer experience by offering our customers low prices, convenience, and a wide selection of merchandise, to provide e-commerce solutions and services to other businesses and to offer web services applications to developers. Price We endeavor to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low
everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. We also strive to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can pass along the associated savings to our customers in the form of lower prices. We enable third-party sellers to offer products on
our sites, in many instances alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our
software engineers, computer scientists, and management team focus on continuous innovation to provide further convenience for our customers. We work to earn repeat purchases by providing easy-to-use 3 Table of Contents functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, timely customer service, feature-rich content, and a trusted transaction environment. Key features of our
websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; gift guides; Web pages tailored to individual preferences, such as recommendations and notifications; 1-Click ® technology; secure payment systems; image uploads; digital content; searching on our
websites as well as the Internet; browsing; and the ability to view selected interior pages and citations, and search the entire contents of many of the books we offer with our “Look Inside the Book” and “Search Inside the Book”
features. Our community of online customers also creates feature-rich content, including product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, buying guides, and wedding and baby registries. We endeavor to fulfill customer orders quickly, and to provide intuitive
self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. We communicate our fulfillment promise in several ways, such as presenting up-to-date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited
delivery, as well as delivery shipment notifications. Additionally, customers can use the “Your Account” website features to track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery
instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through our U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses; through fulfillment centers operated under co-sourcing arrangements, including our
fulfillment center supporting www.amazon.co.jp ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment providers supporting www.amazon.ca; and through other third-party fulfillment arrangements. We operate customer service
centers globally, which are supplemented by several co-sourcing customer service arrangements with third parties. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Exchange Rates” for a table demonstrating the effect
on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our 6.875% PEACS are denominated in Euros, not U.S. Dollars. We remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS quarterly based on fluctuations
in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio and record gains or losses in “Remeasurements and other” on our consolidated statements of operations. As a result, increases in the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar increase the U.S. dollar
amount we owe as interest and principal. Furthermore, we hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities primarily in Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Accordingly, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents
and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. 14 Table of Contents Our Investments and the Consideration We Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us
to a Number of Risks In the past, we have entered
into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances whereby we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange for our services we received cash, equity securities of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such
as website traffic. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other company. In some cases, we have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash
payment in exchange for equity securities of that company. We may make similar investments in the future. To the extent we have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our ultimate
realization of amounts we have received as compensation for services. In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial
agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts was changed to correspond with the terms of the amended
agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts
not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. Our investments in equity securities are included in “Marketable securities” and “Other assets” on our
consolidated balance sheets. We regularly review all of our investments in public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment below our accounting basis is
other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In recent years, securities of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced significant
difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters that the fair values of our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. As of December 31, 2005, our recorded basis in equity securities was $14 million, including $6
million classified as “Marketable securities” and $8 million classified as “Other assets.” The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management
and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key
employees could harm our business. System Interruption
and the Lack of Integration and Redundancy in Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access to our websites and the speed with which a customer is able to navigate and make purchases on our websites directly affects the volume of goods we sell and the services we offer and thus affects our
net sales. We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties, which may reduce our net sales and
the attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause
system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses,
physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. 15 Table of Contents Should this occur, it would make our product offerings less attractive to our customers and our service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we
do have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance
limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy. We Have Significant Indebtedness As of December 31, 2005, we had long-term indebtedness of $1.52 billion. We make annual or semi-annual interest payments on the indebtedness under
our two convertible notes, which are due in 2009 and 2010. Although we made debt principal reduction payments, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future, and in any event a significant portion of our future cash flow from operating
activities is likely to remain dedicated to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; to plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and competition; and to react in the event of an economic downturn. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service
obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or if we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will be in default. In addition, we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on
terms acceptable to us, or at all. See   

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt and Other.” We Face Significant Inventory Risk We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer
tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered
and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product selection, and accurately forecast product demand. A failure to optimize inventory within
our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost by requiring us to make split shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our third-party services relationships with Toysrus.com,
Babiesrus.com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, and bear the financial risk of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or
optimize or maintain access to inventory, we would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may
not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect
our operating results. We May Not Be Able to Adequately
Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, 16 Table of Contents partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be
available in every country in which our products and services are made available online. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary
rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to determine the
existence or extent of any such unauthorized use. In addition, third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may
require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our
patents, trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets, and similar proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property
rights. Other parties also may claim that we infringe their
proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims,
whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we
have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to
intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. We Have a Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a relatively short operating history and a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price of
our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • general economic conditions; • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the Internet and the e-commerce industry; • fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for Internet-related companies in particular; • quarterly variations in operating results; • new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in Internet regulation; • changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; • additions or departures of key personnel; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs or closures of facilities; • changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce companies; and • transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. 17 Table of Contents Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and
financing opportunities. Future volatility in our stock price
could force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. Government Regulation of the Internet and E-commerce Is Evolving and
Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business We are
subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These
regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access
to our services, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce.
Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate “auctions” and “auctioneers” and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other
consumer-to-consumer online markets, including certain aspects of Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Us to Liability for Past Sales and Cause
Our Future Sales to Decrease We do not collect sales
taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of most of our goods into most states in the U.S. Under some of our commercial agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales
tax in most states in accordance with that company’s instructions. We may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future
expansion of those networks, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. We collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) as
applicable on goods and services sold by us that are ordered on our international sites. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in e-commerce.
A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with
traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress,
have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and
resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for
us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on all of our online competitors and decrease our future sales. Our Vendor Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks Although we continue to increase the number of vendors that supply products to us and no vendor accounts for 10% or more of
our inventory purchases, we have significant vendors that are important to our sourcing. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the
extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop 18 Table of Contents selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on
acceptable terms. We May Be Subject to Product Liability
Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls.
Certain businesses and individuals also sell products using our e-commerce platform that may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have sufficient resources to protect themselves from such claims.
Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some
of our vendor agreements with our distributors, manufacturers, and third-party sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We Are Subject to a Number of Risks Related to Payments We Accept We accept payments by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, gift certificates, direct debit from a
customer’s bank account, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. As we offer new payment options to our customers, like direct debit in the U.S., we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For
certain payment transactions, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating
rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to
fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be
adversely affected. Finally, we offer co-branded credit card programs that represent a significant component of our services revenue and generate high margins. If one or more of these agreements are terminated and we are unable to replace them on
similar terms, or at all, it could adversely affect our operating results. We Could Be Liable for Breaches of Security on Our Website A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure storage and transmission of confidential information. Although we have developed systems and
processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. We Could Be Liable for Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers The law relating to the liability of providers of
online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision of online payment services and could require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under Merchants@,
Marketplace and certain other of our programs, we may be unable to prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from
the sellers’ descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, we reimburse buyers for payments up to certain limits in these situations and as our third party sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating
results. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of our A2Z Guarantee or otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our payments program depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these
vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, our payments program and our businesses that use it may not be viable. Finally, we may be unable to prevent sellers in our Merchants@, Marketplace, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and certain other
programs from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods in an unlawful manner, or violating the proprietary rights of others, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. 19 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Adapt Quickly Enough to Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology in the e-commerce industry changes
rapidly. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new
industry standards and practices could render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete. 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 23 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (in millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ 8,490 $ 6,921 $ 5,264 $ 3,933 $ 3,122 Income (loss) before change in accounting principle 333 588 35 (150 ) (557 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 26 — — 1 (11 ) Net income (loss) 359 588 35 (149 ) (567 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 0.81 $ 1.45 $ 0.09 $ (0.40 ) $ (1.53 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 0.06 — — 0.01 (0.03 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.87 $ 1.45 $ 0.09 $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 0.78 $ 1.39 $ 0.08 $ (0.40 ) $ (1.53 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 0.06 — — 0.01 (0.03 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.84 $ 1.39 $ 0.08 $ (0.39 ) $ (1.56 ) Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings (loss) per share: Basic 412 406 395 378 364 Diluted 426 425 419 378 364 December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ 3,696 $ 3,248 $ 2,162 $ 1,990 $ 1,638 Long-term debt and other $ 1,521 $ 1,855 $ 1,945 $ 2,277 $ 2,156 (1) For further discussion of earnings (loss) per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies.” 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as
anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ
materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that
Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential
fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, 24 Table of Contents fulfillment center optimization, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and
strategic transactions, risks of inventory management, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from
management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements—Note 1—Description
of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and
results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need 2 The operating cycle is number of days of sales in inventory plus number of days of sales in
accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. 3 Inventory turnover is the quotient of annualized cost of sales to average inventory over five
quarters. 4 Accounts payable days, calculated as the quotient of accounts payable to cost of sales,
multiplied by the number of days in the period. 26 Table of Contents to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments
addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual
results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate
units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery
of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria
of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent , in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount
earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary party obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is
recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using a percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Under our Syndicated Stores
arrangements, we record gross product sales and costs since we own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns a sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates,
and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to sales contracts that generally provide for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery
to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD
rentals, Amazon Prime, and other membership programs, are deferred and classified in “Unearned revenue” on our consolidated balance sheets and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage
purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount
offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future
redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are classified as an offsetting amount in “Net sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar
amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. When we are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when
risk of loss and title transfer to the customer. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. 27 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”)
method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to
product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our
agreements. In those arrangements, as well as other product sales by third parties, the third-party maintains ownership of the related products. Internal-Use Software Included in fixed assets is the capitalized cost of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our
websites and processes supporting our business. As required by Statement of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use,” we capitalize costs incurred during the application
development stage of internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life of two years. Costs incurred related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred. During 2005, 2004 and 2003 we capitalized $90 million (including $11 million
of stock-based compensation), $44 million, and $30 million of costs associated with internal-use software and website development, which are partially offset by amortization of previously capitalized amounts of $50 million, $30 million and $24
million. Currency Effect on Intercompany Balances A provision of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, in which settlement is not planned or anticipated in the
foreseeable future, be excluded in the determination of net income. Our international operations are financed, in part, by the U.S. parent company. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2003, currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were
recorded to stockholders’ equity (deficit) as translation adjustments and not included in the determination of net income because we intended to permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we made the decision that these
amounts would be repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain or loss arising from remeasurements of intercompany balances is required to be recorded in the determination of net income. In accordance with SFAS
No. 52, currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter of 2003 continue to be included as a component of “Accumulated other comprehensive income” on our consolidated balance sheets. Resulting from the remeasurement of
intercompany balances using exchange rates at the reporting dates, we recorded a loss of $47 million in 2005, and gains of $41 million and $36 million in 2004 and 2003. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. At December 31, 2005, our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, were
$291 million, which includes $123 million relating to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) that are primarily attributed to stock-based compensation. The majority of our NOLs begin to expire in 2016. Additionally, we have elected to present our NOL deferred tax assets
attributed to stock-based compensation net of the related allowance as of the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total gross deferred tax assets related to our NOLs at December 31, 2005 were $616 million (relating to approximately $1.9 billion of NOLs). 28 Table of Contents SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future
realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative
earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 109, we allocate our
valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We recorded a tax benefit in 2005 of $90 million, representing $0.22 and $0.21 of basic and diluted earnings per share, as we determined at year end that certain of our deferred tax assets were more likely than not
realizable. The range of possible judgments relating to valuation of our deferred tax assets is very wide. For example, had we determined that the weight of available evidence did not support a decision that these deferred tax assets are realizable;
the “Provision (benefit) for income taxes” would have been an expense of $185 million for 2005 rather than an expense of $95 million for the same period. At December 31, 2005 we continue to have a valuation allowance of $213 million,
which relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the occurrence of future capital gains. Stock-Based Compensation As of January 1, 2005, we early adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires us to measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize
compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will
be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in
estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. Liquidity
and Capital Resources Our financial focus is on
long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow 1 . Free cash flow was $529 million for 2005, which includes the
effect of a $40 million patent litigation settlement, compared to $477 million and $347 million for 2004 and 2003. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital and
timing of capital expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, the timing of expense payments, discounts offered by vendors, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash
flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion at the end of 2005 and 2004. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $905 million and $970
million at the end of 2005 and 2004, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), cash retained as a result of tax deductions relating to stock-based compensation was presented in operating cash flows, along with other tax cash flows. SFAS 123(R)
supersedes prior guidance and requires tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions to be prospectively presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows, which is effectively a reclassification between
operating cash flows and financing cash flows versus prior presentation. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $7 million, $8 million, and $4 million for
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, with the amount for 2005 treated as financing cash flows to the detriment of operating cash flow. We expect the corresponding amount for 2006 to increase substantially and possibly be in excess of
$100 million, although the actual amount 1 Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of
fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. 29 Table of Contents is subject to considerable variability. Accordingly, amounts presented for operating cash flows and free cash flows for 2006 will be negatively effected
in comparison to prior results; however, the underlying economic substance is not effected by this change in reporting classification. Cash provided by operating activities was $733 million, $566 million, and $393 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003. Our operating cash flows result primarily
from cash received from our customers, from third-party sellers, and from non-retail activities such as through our co-branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, offset by
cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant to SOP 98-1 that are reflected in cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and
interest payments on our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers, third-party sellers and non-retail activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables
from customers settle quickly. Cash paid to inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost of sales, adjusted for increases or decreases in inventory and payable levels as well as increases or decreases in vendor-related
receivables for co-operative marketing, volume rebates, and other incentives. During 2005, cash paid to inventory suppliers, totaled $5.5 billion, compared to $4.6 billion and $3.4 billion in 2004 and 2003. Cash paid to inventory suppliers is also
affected by our efforts to add product categories, increase selection of products we offer for sale, improve availability in both existing and new product categories, and take advantage of additional discounts offered to us by suppliers. Cash
provided by operating activities was negatively affected by the $40 million patent litigation settlement in third quarter 2005. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Other Operating Expense
(Income).” Cash provided by (used in) investing
activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, net cash flows from acquisitions, and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Net cash used in investing
activities was $778 million and $317 million in 2005 and 2004, while cash provided by investing activities was $236 million in 2003 with the variability caused primarily by purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Capital
expenditures were $204 million, $89 million and $46 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investment in development of new features and product offerings on our websites, as well as investments
in fulfillment-related assets and technology infrastructure. Capital expenditures included $79 million, $44 million and $30 million for internal-use software and website development during 2005, 2004 and 2003. Stock-based compensation capitalized
for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient to keep our facilities and equipment in suitable operating condition. We also purchased
certain companies in 2005 and 2004 resulting in cash payments, net of acquired cash, of $24 million and $71 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $193 million, $97 million, and $332 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003. Cash outflows from financing activities
result from repayments of long-term debt and payments on capital lease obligations, which were $270 million in 2005, $157 million in 2004, and $495 million in 2003. During 2005, we repaid €200 million of our 6.875% PEACS for $265 million.
During 2004, we repaid $154 million to redeem a portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt and Other.” Cash inflows from
financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises of employee stock options, which were $66 million, $60 million, and $163 million for 2005, 2004, and 2003. We expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options will continue to
decline over time as we continue issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. In 2005 we recorded a net tax provision of $95 million, and in 2004 we recorded a net tax benefit of $233 million. A majority of this provision and
benefit is non-cash as we have deferred tax assets resulting from our history of net operating losses. In February 2006, we announced plans to redeem €250 million principal of our 6.875% PEACS, which is expected to close March 7, 2006, for a cash
payment of approximately $305 million (at the Euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate on January 31, 2006), which includes $1 million of interest. Under the indenture governing the 6.875% PEACS, no premium is required. 30 Table of Contents Additionally, in February 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a new debt repurchase program,
replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to an aggregate of $500 million of
our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS. Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are denominated in Euros, our U.S. Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. As a result, any fluctuations in
the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest expense and, to the extent we make principal payments, the amount of U.S. Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS
is due in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses on currency movements until the date of the interest payment. Gains or losses on the remeasurement of our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified as “Other
income, net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Our inventory turnover was 14 and 16 for 2005 and 2004. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, our mix of third-party sales, and the extent we choose to
utilize outsource fulfillment providers, among other factors. The decline in inventory turnover is primarily attributed to our emphasis on maintaining wide merchandise selection of in-stock inventory, which enables faster delivery of products to our
customers. The following summarizes our principal contractual
commitments as of December 31, 2005: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total (in millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other (1) $ 14 $ 1 $ 2 $ 902 $ 587 $ 17 $ 1,523 Debt interest (1) 83 83 83 61 40 — 350 Capital leases 2 1 1 1 1 1 7 Operating leases (2)(3) 129 115 78 65 51 157 595 Purchase obligations (4) 289 12 8 8 8 8 333 Total commitments $ 517 $ 212 $ 172 $ 1,037 $ 687 $ 183 $ 2,808 (1) At December 31, 2005, the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate was 1.1843. Due to changes in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation
under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $97 million as of December 31, 2005. The principal and interest commitments reflect the partial redemptions of the 6.875% PEACS and 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes.
Additionally, on March 7, 2006, we will redeem €250 million of our outstanding 6.875% PEACS, which is not reflected in the table above. (2) Pursuant to SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized at their inception as either operating or capital leases depending on certain defined
criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for us, pursuant to SFAS No. 13 they are not reflected on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2005, we have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real
estate totaling $595 million. If we had applied to our equipment operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not be in accordance with GAAP, we would have recorded approximately $90 million of additional
obligations on our balance sheet at December 31, 2005. (3) Includes $9 million related to restructuring-related leases and other commitments, consisting of $4 million due within 12 months and included in “Accrued expenses and other
current liabilities,” and $5 million due after 12 months and included in “Long-term debt and other” on our balance sheets. These amounts are net of anticipated sublease income of $4 million. (4) Consists of legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and significant non-inventory commitments. 31 Table of Contents Pledged Securities We are required to pledge a portion of our cash equivalents or marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of
credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required to be pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases; with fluctuations in our market
capitalization, which is common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock; and based on our credit-rating. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby Letters of Credit (1) Line of Credit (2) Real Estate Leases (3) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 50 $ 2 $ 22 $ 74 Net change in collateral pledged 9 12 (4 ) 17 Balance at December 31, 2005 (4) $ 59 $ 14 $ 18 $ 91 (1) Pursuant to available standby letter-of-credit facilities totaling $139 million. (2) Pursuant to an available line of credit totaling $13 million, whereby collateral is required to be pledged at 110% of the outstanding balance. (3) The required amount of collateral to be pledged on certain of our real estate leases fluctuates based on our market capitalization. At December 31, 2005, our market
capitalization was $19.6 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $5 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $18 billion and by an additional $6 million if our market capitalization is equal to or
below $13 billion. (4) Includes $19 million of cash equivalents pledged as collateral. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2—Cash, Cash
Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.” We
believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject
to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of
Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Fulfillment The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars during 2005 in comparison with the prior years relates to variable costs corresponding with sales
volume and inventory levels; our mix of product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs, including mix of payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment
capacity. Fulfillment includes stock-based compensation of $16 million, $10 million, and $18 million for 2005, 2004, and 2003. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, including those
from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, and our ability to
reduce customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. The mix of product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based on variations in shape and weight
of products we sell. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with third-party seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs and our A to Z
Guarantee costs associated with these transactions are higher as a percentage of revenue versus our retail sales, our increasing third-party sales have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. We expanded our fulfillment capacity in 2005 and 2004 through gains in
efficiencies as well as increases in leased warehouse space. We plan to continue expanding our world-wide fulfillment capacity in order to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties where we
provide the fulfillment. We expect absolute amounts spent in fulfillment and fulfillment-related cost of sales to increase over time. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates and Syndicated Stores
programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, 37 Table of Contents and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or
decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. Marketing includes stock-based compensation of $6 million, $4 million, and $5
million for 2005, 2004, and 2003. Marketing costs increased in
absolute terms in 2005 compared to 2004 and 2003. These increases correspond with revenue growth as we utilized variable online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, and other variable marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included in
marketing expense, we view free shipping offers as an effective worldwide marketing tool, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. We expect absolute amounts spent in marketing to increase over time. Technology and Content We significantly increased our spending in technology and content in 2005,
which corresponds with our focus on several technology initiatives. We have added a significant number of computer scientists and software engineers to our staff so that we can continue to enhance the customer experience on our websites and those
websites powered by us, improve our process efficiency, and invest in several areas of technology including seller platforms, search, web services, and digital initiatives. We believe these initiatives that we are funding are important to our
longer-term success. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview” for a discussion of how management views the competitive landscape and importance
of innovation. We intend to continue investing in areas of technology and content as we continue to add computer scientists and software engineers to our staff, and expect absolute amounts spent in technology and content to increase over time.
Technology and content includes stock-based compensation of $45 million, $32 million, and $50 million for 2005, 2004, and 2003. For the years ended 2005, 2004, and 2003, we capitalized $90 million (including $11 million of stock-based compensation), $44 million, and $30 million of
costs associated with internal-use software and website development, which are partially offset by amortization of previously capitalized amounts of $50 million, $30 million, and $24 million. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use
software, content, and website development, net of accumulated depreciation, were $87 million and $47 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004. Capitalized internal-use software is amortized over a useful life of two years. A significant majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and
most of them are allocated to our North America segment. General and Administrative The
increase in spending in general and administrative in 2005 compared to 2004 and 2003 is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, professional fees, and legal costs, offset by a $12 million credit in 2005 for actual and expected
reimbursement by an insurer of certain legal costs previously incurred by us. General and administrative includes stock-based compensation of $20 million, $12 million, and $15 million for 2005, 2004, and 2003. We expect absolute amounts spent in
general and administrative to increase over time. Stock-Based Compensation Prior to
January 1, 2005, we accounted for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related
Interpretations. The intrinsic value method of accounting resulted in compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units at their estimated fair value on date of grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of
our common stock, and for stock options to the extent option 38 Table of Contents exercise prices were set below market prices on the date of grant. Also, to the extent stock awards were subject to an exchange offer, other modifications,
or performance criteria, such awards were subject to variable accounting treatment. To the extent stock awards were forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense was reversed as an offset to operating expenses. As of January 1, 2005, we early adopted SFAS
No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The
fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which
is consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for options in footnote disclosures required under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation—Transition and Disclosure. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS 123(R). The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest
requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating
expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we recorded
a benefit of $10 million, $6 million net of tax, or $0.01 per diluted share, representing the cumulative effect of slightly increasing the rate of forfeitures expected over the life of issued stock awards based on our historical experience.
Additionally, because we implemented SFAS 123(R), we no longer have employee stock awards subject to variable accounting treatment. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) resulted in a cumulative benefit from accounting change of $26 million in 2005, which reflects the net cumulative impact of
estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), cash retained as a result of tax deductions relating to stock-based compensation was presented in operating cash
flows, along with other tax cash flows, in accordance with the provisions of EITF No. 00-15, Classification in the Statement of Cash Flows of the Income Tax Benefit Received by a Company upon Exercise of a Nonqualified Employee Stock Option. SFAS 123(R) supersedes EITF 00-15, amends SFAS 95, Statement of Cash Flows, and requires tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions to be prospectively presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash
inflows, which is effectively a reclassification between operating cash flows and financing cash flows versus prior presentation. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of amounts reported for financial reporting
purposes were $7 million, $8 million, and $4 million for December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, with the amount for 2005 treated as financing cash flows to the detriment of operating cash flow. We expect the corresponding amount for 2006
to increase substantially and possibly be in excess of $100 million, although the actual amount is subject to considerable variability. Accordingly, amounts presented for operating cash flows and free cash flows for 2006 will be negatively
effected in comparison to prior results; however, the underlying economic substance is not effected by this change in reporting classification. On March 29, 2005, the SEC published Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, which provides the Staff’s views on a variety of matters
relating to stock-based payments. SAB 107 requires stock-based compensation be classified in the same expense line items as cash compensation. We have reclassified stock-based compensation from prior periods to correspond to current period
presentation within the same operating expense line items as cash compensation paid to employees. Stock-based compensation was $87 million, $58 million and $88 million during 2005, 2004, and 2003. We applied the fair value
accounting provisions of SFAS 123(R) for 2005 compared with the application of APB No. 25, including variable accounting treatment on certain awards, for 2004 and 2003. Because of the application of
different methods of accounting as well as the effects of variable accounting treatment in 2004 and 2003, stock-based compensation for 2005 is not comparable to prior periods. As of December 31, 2005, there was $169 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost, net of forfeitures of $106 million, related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. 39 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense (Income) Other operating expense was $47 million in 2005, primarily attributable to
our settlement of a patent lawsuit for $40 million, as well as amortization of other intangibles of $5 million. Other operating income was $8 million for 2004 and other operating expense was $3 million for 2003, which includes restructuring-related
credits, net, of $9 million in 2004 and amortization of other intangibles of $1 million and $3 million in 2004 and 2003. During 2004, we determined that certain of the office space previously vacated as part of our 2001 restructuring, which we had been unable to sublease due
to poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. We reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting in a gain of $13 million for 2004. Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and
classified to the corresponding operating expense categories on the consolidated statements of operations. In 2004, we streamlined our organizational structure in France to reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused on eliminating
French-office positions in managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number of employees affected totaled 52 and resulted in severance costs of $4 million classified in “Other operating expense (income)” on the
consolidated statements of operations. Income from
Operations Our income from operations was $432
million, $440 million, and $270 million during 2005, 2004, and 2003. The decrease in 2005 from 2004 is primarily a result of an increase in spending for technology and content, an increase in stock-based compensation that is now recorded under SFAS
123(R) fair value accounting, and a payment of $40 million to settle a patent lawsuit. These increased expenditures were partially offset by higher net sales and gross profit. The increase in operating income in 2004 compared with 2003 was primarily
attributed to increases in net sales and gross profit growth and leveraging operating expenses relative to net sales. Income from operations was negatively affected by year-over-year changes in exchange rates in 2005, and positively affected in 2004
and 2003. Net Interest Expense The primary component of our net interest expense is the interest we incur
on our long-term debt instruments, including a $900 million principal balance of our 4.75% U.S. Convertible Subordinated Notes and a €490 million ($580 million based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2005) principal balance of our
6.875% PEACS at December 31, 2005. Interest expense was $92 million, $107 million, and $130 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003, with declines primarily relating to principal repayments of $265 million and $150 million in 2005 and 2004. At December 31, 2005, our total long-term indebtedness was $1.52
billion compared to $1.86 billion at December 31, 2004. In February 2006, we announced plans to redeem €250 million principal of our 6.875% PEACS, which is expected to close March 7, 2006, for a cash payment of approximately $305 million
(at the Euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate on January 31, 2006), which includes $1 million of interest. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt and Other.” We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to
intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies
and currencies in which they are invested. Other Income
(Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, was $2
million, $(5) million, and $7 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, and consisted primarily of gains (losses) on sales of marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains (losses), and other miscellaneous losses, net. 40 Table of Contents Foreign-currency transaction gains (losses) primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS.
Since these payments are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable (which is paid annually in February) is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and
payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS (1) $ 90 $ (65 ) $ (140 ) Gain (loss) on sales of Euro-denominated investments, net (2 ) 9 6 Loss on redemption of long-term debt (4) (6 ) (6 ) (24 ) Foreign-currency effect on intercompany balances (2) (47 ) 41 36 Other (3) 7 20 (8 ) Total remeasurements and other $ 42 $ (1 ) $ (130 ) (1) Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to “Remeasurements and other” on our consolidated
statements of operations. (2) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement of intercompany balances due to changes in foreign exchange rates. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (3) Activity in 2005 and 2004 primarily includes gains associated with the sale of certain equity investments. Activity in 2003 primarily includes a loss from termination of our Euro
currency swap. (4) We expect to record a charge of $6 million related to our announced plans to redeem €250 million principal of our 6.875% PEACS, which is expected to close March 6, 2006. Income Taxes We recorded a tax benefit in 2005 of $90 million, representing $0.22 and
$0.21 of basic and diluted earnings per share, as we determined at year end that certain of our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. Excluding this $90 million benefit, our effective tax rate would have been significantly higher
than the 35% statutory rate, resulting from steps we initiated to establish our European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we
transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 from the U.S. to international locations which resulted in taxable income and an increase in our effective tax rate. We will initiate similar asset transfers in 2006 to finalize our European
headquarters transition, and we expect this will result in an effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes significantly higher than the statutory rate for 2006. There is potential for significant volatility of our 2006 effective tax rate due
to several factors, including from variability in accurately predicting our taxable income and the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates. Since we have deferred tax assets related to our NOLs, these asset transfers will not have a significant
impact on our cash taxes paid in 2006, which we expect to be approximately $25 million, compared with $12 million in 2005 and $4 million in 2004. We are not endeavoring to optimize our global taxes on a financial reporting basis, instead we endeavor
to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis. We recorded a
tax benefit in 2004 of $244 million, representing $0.60 and $0.57 of basic and diluted earnings per share, and a credit to “Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)” of $106 million as we determined that certain of our deferred tax assets were
more likely than not realizable. At December 31, 2005,
our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, are $291 million, which includes $123 million relating to NOLs that are primarily attributed to stock-based 41 Table of Contents compensation, the majority of which begin to expire in 2016, and $18 million relating to capital loss carryforwards that expire in 2006 and thereafter. The
remaining portion relates to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. The $123 million NOLs primarily attributed to stock-based compensation are presented net of fully-reserved NOL deferred tax assets totaling $493 million.
Total gross deferred tax assets related to our NOLs at December 31, 2005 were $616 million (relating to approximately $1.9 billion of NOLs). Net Income Net income was $359 million, $588 million and $35 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003. We believe that year-over-year changes in net income are not necessarily
predictive of our future net income results for a variety of reasons. For example, in 2005 we recorded a provision for income taxes of $95 million and in 2004 we recorded a net income tax benefit of $233 million. Included in these amounts in 2005
and 2004 were tax benefits of $90 million and $244 million resulting from our determination that certain of our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. Additionally, the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances
resulted in net gains in 2005 and net charges in 2004 and 2003 associated with the effect of movements in currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate the effect on our operating trends of these
items since future income taxes and change in currency exchange rates may create significant variability in our future operating results. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per
share data): Year Ended December 31, 2005 Year Ended December 31, 2004 Year Ended December 31, 2003 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 8,563 $ (73 ) $ 8,490 $ 6,645 $ 276 $ 6,921 $ 5,032 $ 232 $ 5,264 Gross profit 2,052 (13 ) 2,039 1,550 52 1,602 1,211 46 1,257 Operating expenses 1,612 (5 ) 1,607 1,130 32 1,162 955 32 987 Income from operations 440 (8 ) 432 420 20 440 256 14 270 Net interest expense and other 52 (6 ) 46 75 9 84 90 11 101 Remeasurements and other (3) 1 41 42 14 (15 ) (1 ) (31 ) (99 ) (130 ) Net income 328 31 359 592 (4 ) 588 131 (96 ) 35 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.77 $ 0.07 $ 0.84 $ 1.40 $ (0.01 ) $ 1.39 $ 0.31 $ (0.23 ) $ 0.08 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the current period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results,
and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (2) Represents the increase (decrease) in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results, and
if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (3) Includes foreign-currency gains (losses) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances, and realized currency-related gains associated with sales of Euro-denominated
investments held by a U.S. subsidiary. 42 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the
conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of “Free cash flow” meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in
accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete
understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by operating
activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because,
although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of
fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the
residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free
cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by operating activities” for 2005, 2004, and 2003 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 733 $ 566 $ 393 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (204 ) (89 ) (46 ) Free cash flow $ 529 $ 477 $ 347 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (778 ) $ (317 ) $ 236 Net cash used in financing activities $ (193 ) $ (97 ) $ (332 ) In addition, we
provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, which excludes the employer portion of payroll tax expense. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our
internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred
operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Stock-based
compensation programs are an important element of the company’s compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as appropriate in results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Guidance The Company provided guidance on February 2, 2006 in its earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter 2006 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $2.14 billion and $2.29 billion, or grow between 13% and 20%, compared with first quarter 2005. • Operating income is expected to be between $70 million and $105 million, or decline between (35%) and (3%), compared with first quarter 2005. This guidance includes $30 million for
stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that no additional intangible assets are recorded, and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation or restructuring-related
estimates. Full Year 2006 Expectations • Net sales are expected to be between $9.85 billion and $10.45 billion, or grow between 16% and 23%, compared with 2005. • Operating income is expected to be between $370 million and $510 million, or between (14%) decline and 18% growth, compared with 2005. This guidance includes $135 million for
stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that no additional intangible assets are recorded and that there are no changes to stock-based compensation or restructuring-related estimates. These projections are subject to substantial
uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative
disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily
to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our
excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer
losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. 44 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income
securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2005 (in millions, except percentages): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2005 Money market funds $ 587 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 587 $ 587 Weighted average interest rate 3.41 % — — — — — 3.41 % Certificates of deposit 15 5 3 4 — — 27 29 Weighted average interest rate 3.67 % 2.90 % 3.06 % 3.03 % — — 3.37 % Corporate debt securities 200 53 33 69 33 — 388 402 Weighted average interest rate 3.97 % 4.00 % 3.99 % 4.60 % 4.60 % — 4.14 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 211 35 79 43 73 — 441 439 Weighted average interest rate 3.97 % 4.98 % 4.76 % 4.94 % 4.58 % — 4.39 % Asset backed securities 131 97 33 5 10 — 276 276 Weighted average interest rate 3.89 % 4.94 % 4.10 % 5.02 % 4.95 % — 4.34 % Other securities 3 33 47 35 18 — 136 165 Weighted average interest rate 2.60 % 2.80 % 2.83 % 2.95 % 3.01 % — 2.87 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,147 $ 223 $ 195 $ 156 $ 134 $ — $ 1,855 $ 1,898 The following table
provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2004 (in millions, except percentages): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2004 Money market funds $ 102 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 102 $ 103 Weighted average interest rate 2.18 % — — — — — 2.18 % Certificates of deposit 496 — — — — — 496 497 Weighted average interest rate 2.52 % — — — — — 2.52 % Corporate debt securities 240 4 3 8 13 — 268 275 Weighted average interest rate 2.25 % 3.45 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % — 2.51 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 142 141 46 43 19 — 391 388 Weighted average interest rate 2.33 % 3.32 % 3.29 % 3.00 % 3.00 % — 2.91 % Asset backed securities — 61 8 — — — 69 70 Weighted average interest rate — 4.38 % 3.10 % — — — 4.24 % Other securities 26 — — — — 26 27 Weighted average interest rate 2.24 % — — — — — 2.24 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,006 $ 206 $ 57 $ 51 $ 32 $ — $ 1,352 $ 1,360 At December 31,
2005, we had long-term debt of $1.52 billion primarily associated with our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2009 and 2010. The fair value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates,
increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. 45 Table of Contents Based upon quoted market prices at prevailing exchange rates, the fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was
€495 million or $586 million (outstanding principal of €490 million) and €691 million or $936 million (outstanding principal of €690 million) at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes was $868 million and $907 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004. Foreign Exchange Risk During 2005, net sales from our International segment (consisting of www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , www.amazon.fr , www.amazon.co.jp , and www.joyo.com ) accounted for 45% of our consolidated revenues. Net
sales and related expenses generated from these websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily
include Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances
associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record
significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2005, International segment revenues declined $78 million and our operating results declined $7
million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign
exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2005 of $905 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative
currency movement would result in fair value declines of $45 million, $91 million, and $181 million. All investments are classified as “available for sale,” as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities . We have foreign exchange risk related
to our 6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2005 of €490 million ($580 million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2005). Due to fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio,
which we cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $97 million as of December 31, 2005. Based on the outstanding 6.875% PEACS’ principal balance, an
assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in additional losses of approximately $29 million, $58 million, and $116 million, recorded to “Remeasurements and other.” Additionally, we have
not hedged our interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS to protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 20% in 2006, we would incur $2 million, $4 million, and $8 million
additional annual interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange. See “Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2005, our recorded basis in equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $14 million, including $6
million classified as “Marketable securities,” and $8 million classified as “Other assets.” We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that
declines in the fair value of such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values of our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market in general, company-specific
circumstances, and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at December 31, 2005 of $44 million (recorded basis of $7 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change
to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately $7 million, $13 million, and $22 million. 46 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 48 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 49 Consolidated Statements of Operations 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets 51 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) 52 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 53 47 Table of Contents REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 41  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental
Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Amazon.com Retail and Third-Party Sellers We source and sell a broad range of products to our customers worldwide across dozens of product categories. Through Amazon Services, we offer Amazon
Marketplace and Merchants@ programs that enable third parties to sell their products on our websites, allow customers to shop for products owned by third parties using our features and technologies, and allow individuals to complete transactions
that include multiple sellers in a single checkout process. We are not the seller of record in these third-party seller transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof. Amazon Marketplace generally serves individuals and small businesses, enabling them to offer their products for sale on our websites alongside our
products and products made available by other third-party sellers. Our Merchants@ program generally serves larger, branded businesses and is primarily focused on expanding the selection of new products available on our websites. We also offer
fulfillment-related services to third-party sellers through Fulfillment by Amazon. Our retail and third-party seller businesses
relentlessly focus on customer experience by offering our retail customers a wide selection of merchandise, low prices, and convenience. 3 Table of Contents Selection We endeavor to provide the widest possible selection for our customers worldwide, while continuing to focus on in-stock inventory availability. We have designed our websites to enable millions of unique products to be
sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories, such as: •     Books • Music • DVD • Unbox Video
Downloads • VHS • Magazines & Newspapers • Video Games • Software • Amazon Shorts •     Electronics • Audio &
Video • Camera & Photo • Cell Phones & Service • Compters & PC Hardware • Office
Products • Musical Instruments • Outlet •     Home & Garden • Bed &
Bath • Furniture & Décor • Gourmet Food • Kitchen &
Housewares • Outdoor Living • Pet Supplies • Automotive • Tools &
Hardware • Industrial & Scientific •     Apparel & Accessories • Shoes • Jewelry &
Watches • Grocery • Beauty • Health & Personal Care • Sports &
Outdoors • Toys & Games • Baby Price We endeavor to offer our retail customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. We also strive to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can pass along the
associated savings to our customers in the form of lower prices. We enable third-party sellers to offer products on our sites, in many instances alongside our product selection, and to set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software
engineers, computer scientists, merchandisers, and management team focus on continuous innovation to provide further convenience for our customers. We work to earn repeat purchases by providing easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable
fulfillment, timely customer service, feature-rich and authoritative content, and a trusted transaction environment. Key features of our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; gift guides; Web pages
tailored to individual preferences, such as recommendations and notifications; 1-Click technology; secure payment systems; digital content; searching on our websites as well as the Internet; browsing; and the ability to view selected interior pages
and citations, and search the entire contents of many of the books we offer with our “Look Inside the Book” and “Search Inside the Book” features. Our community of online customers also creates feature-rich content, including
product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, image uploads, buying guides, customer discussions, and wedding and baby registries. We endeavor to fulfill customer orders quickly and accurately, and to provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. We communicate our fulfillment promise in several ways, such as presenting
up-to-date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, as well as delivery shipment notifications. Customers can use the “Your Account” website features to track order and shipment
status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel items not yet shipped, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. Additionally, when customers have questions, we provide an intuitive
click-to-call feature on our help pages so customers can quickly and conveniently speak with a customer service representative. 4 Table of Contents We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment
centers and warehouses that we operate; through fulfillment centers operated under co-sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www.amazon.co.jp ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment
providers supporting www.amazon.ca; and through other third-party fulfillment arrangements. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by several co-sourcing customer service arrangements with third parties. See
  

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 21 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in


Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ 10,711 $ 8,490 $ 6,921 $ 5,264 $ 3,933 Income from operations 389 432 440 270 64 Income (loss) before change in accounting principle 190 333 588 35 (150 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — 26 — — 1 Net income (loss) 190 359 588 35 (149 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 0.46 $ 0.81 $ 1.45 $ 0.09 $ (0.40 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — 0.06 — — 0.01 Basic earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.46 $ 0.87 $ 1.45 $ 0.09 $ (0.39 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 0.45 $ 0.78 $ 1.39 $ 0.08 $ (0.40 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — 0.06 — — 0.01 Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1) $ 0.45 $ 0.84 $ 1.39 $ 0.08 $ (0.39 ) Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings (loss) per share: Basic 416 412 406 395 378 Diluted 424 426 425 419 378 Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided by operating activities (3) $ 702 $ 733 $ 566 $ 393 $ 174 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (216 ) (204 ) (89 ) (46 ) (39 ) Free cash flow (2)(3) $ 486 $ 529 $ 477 $ 347 $ 135 December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ 4,363 $ 3,696 $ 3,248 $ 2,162 $ 1,990 Long-term debt 1,247 1,480 1,835 1,919 2,230 (1) For further discussion of earnings (loss) per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and
website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” (3) As a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), operating and free cash flows for 2006 and 2005 were reduced by $102 million and
$7 million. 22 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position,
made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s
current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world
events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products
as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, outcomes of legal proceedings, fulfillment center optimization,
risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity.
These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has
defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective
judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting
policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these
estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate
units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery
of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent , in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary party
obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned
are determined using a percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made 25 Table of Contents pursuant to sales contracts that generally provide for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which
reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime, online DVD rentals, and other
membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. We periodically provide incentive offers to our
customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar
offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based
on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are classified as an offsetting amount in “Net sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are
recognized when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. When we are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when risk of loss and title transfer to the customer. We
record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the
lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or
liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our agreements. In those arrangements, as well as other product sales by third
parties, the third-party maintains ownership of the related products. As such, these amounts are not included in our consolidated balance sheets. Internal-Use Software Included in fixed assets is the capitalized cost of internal-use software and website development,
including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. As required by Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal
Use,” we capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage of internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life of two years. Costs incurred related to design or maintenance of internal-use
software are expensed as incurred. Currency Effect on Intercompany Balances Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included in net income. Our international operations are financed, in part,
by the U.S. parent company. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined 26 Table of Contents based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes
valuation model. Since we primarily issue restricted stock units to our employees, the complexity of valuation issues for stock compensation is greatly reduced. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the
extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including
types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than a straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the compensation cost would be expensed in the first year of a four year
vesting term. The accelerated method also adds a level of complexity in estimating forfeitures. If employees leave early in the life of an award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are
subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are
established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audit.
The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. Deferred
income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. The
majority of our gross deferred tax assets relate to net operating loss carryforwards that related to differences in stock-based compensation between the financial statements and our tax returns. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for
future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative
earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, we
allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. If we determine that additional
portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable the majority of the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements but was claimed on the tax return. Since this
compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit generated will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax 27 Table of Contents position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in
interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN 48 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2007. We estimate the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 to be immaterial to the consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow
information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 702 $ 733 $ 566 Investing activities (333 ) (778 ) (317 ) Financing activities (400 ) (193 ) (97 ) Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a
non-GAAP financial measure, was $486 million for 2006, compared to $529 million and $477 million for 2005 and 2004. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided
by operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow in 2006 was primarily driven by our increased expenditure in technology and content and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation now classified as financing cash flows. Free cash flow
for 2005 included the effect of our payment of a $40 million patent litigation settlement. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital and timing of capital
expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities balances, which, at fair value, were $2.0 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $623 million and $905 million at the end of 2006 and 2005, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and
Japanese Yen. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), cash retained as a result of tax deductions relating to stock-based
compensation was presented in operating cash flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions be presented as financing cash flows, which is effectively a reclassification between operating and
financing cash flows. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $102 million, $7 million, and $8 million for December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, with the
amounts for 2006 and 2005 treated as financing cash flows. Cash provided by operating activities was $702 million, $733 million, and $566
million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by the $40 million patent litigation settlement in 2005. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers, from third-party
sellers, and from non-retail activities such as through our co-branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee
compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant to SOP 98-1 that are reflected in cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term debt obligations. Cash
received from customers, third-party sellers and non-retail activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash used in investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, cash flows from acquisitions, and purchases
of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website 28 Table of Contents development costs. Cash used in investing activities was $333 million, $778 million, and $317 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, with the variability caused
primarily by purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Capital expenditures were $216 million, $204 million and $89 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investment in
development of new features and product offerings on our websites, as well as investments in fulfillment-related assets and technology infrastructure. Capital expenditures included $108 million, $79 million and $44 million for internal-use software
and website development during 2006, 2005 and 2004. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We also made payments, net of acquired cash, of $32 million, $24 million,
and $71 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004 to purchase certain comapnies. Cash used in financing activities was $400 million, $193 million,
and $97 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Cash outflows from financing activities result from repurchases of common stock, repayments of long-term debt, and payments on capital lease obligations. We repurchased $252 million of our common stock under
a $500 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in 2006. Repayments on long-term debt and payments on capital lease obligations were $383 million, $270 million, and $157 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Repayments on long-term
debt include €250 million and €200 million of our 6.875% PEACS for $300 million and $265 million in 2006 and 2005. Additionally, we repaid $154 million to redeem a portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes in 2004. See


  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt.” If all of our capital leases were classified as operating leases, the detriment to cash flows from operating activities would have
been $21 million, $2 million, and $4 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises of employee stock options and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation
deductions. Cash inflows from proceeds from exercise of employee stock options were $35 million, $59 million, and $60 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $102 million
and $7 million in 2006 and 2005, in accordance with adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). We expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options will continue to decline over time as we continue issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for
stock-based awards. In 2006 and 2005 we recorded net tax provisions of $187 million and $95 million, and in 2004 we recorded a net tax
benefit of $233 million. A majority of this provision and benefit is non-cash. We have net operating losses that are classified as deferred tax assets and are being utilized to reduce our taxable income to nominal levels. As such, cash taxes paid
were $15 million, $12 million, and $4 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to
which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to an aggregate of $500 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS.
Additionally, in August 2006 our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock, of which $248 million remains authorized for repurchase at December 31, 2006. Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are denominated in Euros, our U.S. Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations
fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. As a result, any fluctuations in the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest expense and, to the extent we make principal payments, the amount of U.S. Dollar equivalents
necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS is due in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses on currency movements until the date of the interest payment. Gains or
losses on the remeasurement of our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified as “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. On average, our high inventory velocity means we collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 13, 14, and
16 for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We expect some variability 29 Table of Contents in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, our mix of third-party sales, and the extent we choose to
utilize outsource fulfillment providers, among other factors. The decline in inventory turnover is primarily attributed to our emphasis on category expansion and maintaining wide selection of in-stock inventory, which enables faster delivery of
products to our customers. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments as of December 31, 2006: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (in millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other (1) $ 17 $ — $ 930 $ 317 $ — $ — $ 1,264 Debt interest (1) 66 66 44 22 — — 198 Capital leases, including interest 35 7 5 4 4 5 60 Operating leases 129 113 91 72 50 184 639 Other commitments 20 5 8 6 1 19 59 Purchase obligations (2) 420 11 12 9 10 5 467 Total commitments $ 687 $ 202 $ 1,090 $ 430 $ 65 $ 213 $ 2,687 (1) At December 31, 2006, the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate was 1.3201. Due to changes in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation
under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $80 million as of December 31, 2006. The principal and interest commitments reflect the partial redemptions of the 6.875% PEACS and 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. (2) Consists of legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and significant non-inventory commitments. Pledged Securities We are required
to support certain letters of credit, debt, and real estate leases by pledging or otherwise restricting cash and marketable securities. We classify marketable securities, where a use restriction exists for a period of twelve months or longer, as
non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of pledged securities at December 31, 2006 consisted of $50 million in “Marketable securities” and $86 million in “Other assets”. The
amount required to be pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases with fluctuations in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock) and based on
our credit-rating. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby and Trade Letters of Credit (1) Debt (2) Real Estate Leases (3) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 59 $ 14 $ 18 $ 91 Net change in collateral pledged 1 42 2 45 Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 60 $ 56 $ 20 $ 136 (1) Pursuant to available standby and trade letter-of-credit facilities totaling $233 million. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
6—Commitments and Contingencies.” (2) Represents collateral for certain debt related to our international operations. (3) At December 31, 2006, our market capitalization was $16.3 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $6 million if our market capitalization is
equal to or below $13 billion and decrease by $5 million if our market capitalization exceeds $18 billion. We believe that
current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash 30 Table of Contents needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Fulfillment The increase in
fulfillment costs in absolute dollars during 2006 in comparison with the prior years relates to variable costs corresponding with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix of product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs,
including mix of payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions,
our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by
implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with third-party seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying
transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of revenue versus our retail sales, our third-party sales have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. We expanded our fulfillment capacity in 2006 and 2005 through gains in efficiencies as well as increases in leased warehouse space. This expansion is
designed to accommodate greater selection and in-stock levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment. Marketing We direct customers
to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, and other initiatives. 35 Table of Contents Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for
these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense or its effect. Marketing costs increased in absolute terms in 2006 compared to 2005 and 2004, due to increased spending in variable online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, and other variable
marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included in marketing expense, we view free shipping offers and
Amazon Prime as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content In 2005 and 2006, we added computer scientists, software engineers, and employees involved in category expansion, editorial
content, buying, merchandising, and systems support. We will continue to invest in several areas of technology and content, including seller platforms, web services, and digital initiatives, as well as expansion of new and existing product
categories. Additionally, we increased spending on technology infrastructure so that we can continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. We believe these initiatives are important to our long-term success. See
“Overview” above for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. We intend to continue investing in areas of technology and content as we continue to add employees to our staff. For the years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004, we capitalized $123 million, $90 million, and $44 million of costs associated with internal-use software and
website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $86 million, $50 million, and $30 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. A significant majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and most of them are allocated to our North America segment. General and Administrative The increase in spending in general and administrative in 2006 compared to 2005 and 2004
is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, and professional fees. In 2005, we recorded a $12 million credit for actual and expected reimbursement by an insurer of certain legal costs previously incurred by us. Stock-Based Compensation Prior to January 1, 2005, we accounted for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method of accounting resulted in compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units at their estimated fair value on date of grant based on the number of
shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and for stock options to the extent option exercise prices were set below market prices on the date of grant. Also, to the extent stock awards were subject to an exchange offer, other
modifications, or performance criteria, such awards were subject to variable accounting treatment. To the extent stock awards were forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense was reversed as an offset to operating
expenses. As of January 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement of
compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the
number of shares granted and the quoted price of our 36 Table of Contents common stock, and the fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which is consistent with our valuation techniques
previously utilized for options in footnote disclosures required under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS No. 123(R). The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual
results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards,
employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. Additionally, because we implemented SFAS No. 123(R), we no longer have employee stock awards
subject to variable accounting treatment. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a cumulative benefit from accounting change of
$26 million in 2005, which reflects the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Stock-based compensation was $101 million, $87 million and $58 million during 2006, 2005, and 2004. We applied the fair value accounting provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R) for 2006 and 2005 compared with the application of APB Opinion No. 25, including variable accounting treatment on certain awards, for 2004. Because of the application of different methods of accounting as well as the effects of
variable accounting treatment in 2004, stock-based compensation for 2006 and 2005 is not comparable to prior periods. As of December 31, 2006, there was $217 million of net unrecognized compensation cost, related to unvested stock-based
compensation arrangements. Other Operating Expense (Income) Other operating expense was $10 million in 2006, primarily attributable to amortization of other intangibles. Other operating expense was $47 million in
2005, primarily attributable to our settlement of a patent lawsuit for $40 million, as well as amortization of other intangibles of $5 million. Other operating income was $8 million for 2004, which includes net restructuring-related credits of $9
million and amortization of other intangibles of $1 million. During 2004, we determined that certain of the office space previously vacated
as part of our 2001 restructuring was necessary for our future needs. We reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting in a gain of $13 million for 2004. Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and classified
to the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. In 2004, we streamlined our organizational
structure in France to reduce our operating costs. This reduction resulted in severance costs of $4 million classified in “Other operating expense (income)” on our consolidated statements of operations. Income from Operations Income
from operations was $389 million, $432 million, and $440 million during 2006, 2005, and 2004. The decrease in 2006 from 2005 is primarily a result of an increase in spending for technology and content. The decrease in 2005 from 2004 is primarily a
result of an increase in spending for technology and content, an increase in stock-based compensation that is now recorded under SFAS No. 123(R) fair value accounting, and a payment of $40 million to settle a patent lawsuit. These increased
expenditures were partially offset by higher net sales and gross profit. Interest Expense and Income The primary component of our net interest expense is the interest we incur on our long-term debt instruments, including a $900 million principal balance
of our 4.75% U.S. Convertible Subordinated Notes and a 37 Table of Contents €240 million ($317 million based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2006) principal balance of our 6.875% PEACS at December 31, 2006.
Interest expense was $78 million, $92 million, and $107 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, with declines primarily relating to principal repayments of $300 million, $265 million, and $150 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. At December 31, 2006, our total long-term indebtedness was $1.25 billion compared to $1.48 billion at December 31, 2005. See 

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt.” Our interest income was $59 million, $44
million, and $28 million during 2006, 2005, and 2004. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the
average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, was $(4) million, $2 million, and
$(5) million, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, and consisted primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS, as well as foreign-currency gains and losses
on cross-currency investments. Since interest payments on our 6.875% PEACS are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro between
reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS (1) $ (37 ) $ 90 $ (65 ) Loss on redemption of long-term debt (6 ) (6 ) (6 ) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on intercompany balances (2) 50 (47 ) 41 Other 4 5 29 Total remeasurements and other $ 11 $ 42 $ (1 ) (1) Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to “Remeasurements and other” on our consolidated
statements of operations. (2) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement of intercompany balances due to changes in foreign exchange rates. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Foreign Currency.” Income Taxes We recorded a provision (benefit) for income taxes of $187 million, $95 million, and $(233) million, in
2006, 2005 and 2004. The effective tax rate in 2006 was higher than the 35% statutory rate resulting from establishing our European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the
establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and exposure to additional taxable income assertions by
taxing jurisdictions. 38 Table of Contents Included in the 2005 provision and reducing the impact of the international restructure is a tax benefit
of $90 million, resulting from certain of our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $0.22 and $0.21 of basic and diluted earnings per share. We recorded a tax benefit of $244 million in 2004, representing $0.60 and $0.57 of basic and diluted earnings per share, and a credit to
stockholders’ equity of $106 million as we determined that certain of our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. We expect our effective tax rate in 2007 to be approximately 35% or less. However, our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including from accurately predicting our taxable income and the taxable
jurisdictions to which it relates. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per
share data): Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Year Ended December 31, 2004 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 10,687 $ 24 $ 10,711 $ 8,563 $ (73 ) $ 8,490 $ 6,645 $ 276 $ 6,921 Gross profit 2,455 1 2,456 2,052 (13 ) 2,039 1,550 52 1,602 Operating expenses 2,064 3 2,067 1,612 (5 ) 1,607 1,130 32 1,162 Income from operations 391 (2 ) 389 440 (8 ) 432 420 20 440 Net interest expense and other (3) 17 6 23 52 (6 ) 46 75 9 84 Remeasurements and other income (expense) (4) (2 ) 13 11 1 41 42 14 (15 ) (1 ) Net income 188 2 190 328 31 359 592 (4 ) 588 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.44 $ 0.01 $ 0.45 $ 0.77 $ 0.07 $ 0.84 $ 1.40 $ (0.01 ) $ 1.39 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results,
and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results, and
if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (3) Includes foreign currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments. (4) Includes foreign-currency gains and losses on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of “Free cash flow” meets the
definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash
flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed 39 Table of Contents with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to
review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Free cash
flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and
ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing
operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash
flow to be less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash
flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a
complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable
GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by operating activities” for 2006, 2005, and 2004 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 702 $ 733 $ 566 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (216 ) (204 ) (89 ) Free cash flow $ 486 $ 529 $ 477 Net cash used in investing activities $ (333 ) $ (778 ) $ (317 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (400 ) $ (193 ) $ (97 ) In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide
this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding
stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent
with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based
compensation have limitations due to the fact that they do not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary
expense included in the “Fulfillment”, “Technology and content”, “Marketing”, and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. We compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental
information about outstanding stock-based awards in the footnotes to our financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the Company’s compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and
included as appropriate in results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Guidance The Company provided guidance on February 1, 2007 in its earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter
2007 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $2.85 billion and $3.00 billion, or to grow between 25% and 32% compared with first quarter 2006. • Operating income is expected to be between $82 million and $122 million, or between (22%) decline and 16% growth, compared with first quarter 2006. This
guidance includes $38 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional intangible assets are recorded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based
compensation estimates. Full Year 2007 Expectations • Net sales are expected to be between $13.00 billion and $13.70 billion, or to grow between 21% and 28% compared with 2006. • Operating income is expected to be between $355 million and $505 million, or between (9%) decline and 30% growth, compared with 2006. This guidance includes
$165 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional intangible assets are recorded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation
estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent
and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income
securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates. 41 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income
securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2006 (in millions, except percentages): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2006 Money market funds $ 763 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 763 $ 763 Weighted average interest rate 3.92 % — — — — — 3.92 % Certificates of deposit 50 — — — — — 50 50 Weighted average interest rate 5.25 % — — — — — 5.25 % Corporate debt securities 266 45 40 29 39 — 419 419 Weighted average interest rate 5.47 % 5.43 % 5.23 % 5.04 % 4.83 % — 5.35 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 53 32 20 39 27 37 208 207 Weighted average interest rate 5.24 % 4.77 % 4.88 % 4.85 % 4.95 % 5.46 % 5.06 % Asset backed securities 238 32 40 29 9 — 348 347 Weighted average interest rate 5.47 % 5.42 % 5.28 % 5.19 % 5.91 % — 5.43 % Other securities 21 30 23 17 18 — 109 108 Weighted average interest rate 3.74 % 3.93 % 3.92 % 3.86 % 3.87 % — 3.87 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,391 $ 139 $ 123 $ 114 $ 93 $ 37 $ 1,897 $ 1,894 The following table provides information about
our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2005 (in millions, except percentages): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2005 Money market funds $ 587 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 587 $ 587 Weighted average interest rate 3.41 % — — — — — 3.41 % Certificates of deposit 15 5 3 4 — — 27 29 Weighted average interest rate 3.67 % 2.90 % 3.06 % 3.03 % — — 3.37 % Corporate debt securities 200 53 33 69 33 — 388 402 Weighted average interest rate 3.97 % 4.00 % 3.99 % 4.60 % 4.60 % — 4.14 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 211 35 79 43 73 — 441 439 Weighted average interest rate 3.97 % 4.98 % 4.76 % 4.94 % 4.58 % — 4.39 % Asset backed securities 131 97 33 5 10 — 276 275 Weighted average interest rate 3.89 % 4.94 % 4.10 % 5.02 % 4.95 % — 4.34 % Other securities 3 33 47 35 18 136 166 Weighted average interest rate 2.60 % 2.80 % 2.83 % 2.95 % 3.01 % — 2.87 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,147 $ 223 $ 195 $ 156 $ 134 $ — $ 1,855 $ 1,898 At December 31, 2006, we had long-term debt of $1.25 billion primarily associated with our
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2009 and 2010. The fair value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in
periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes
(outstanding principal of $900 million) was $883 million and $868 million at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. 42 Table of Contents The fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was $320 million at December 31, 2006 (outstanding principal of €240 million), and $586 million at
December 31, 2005 (outstanding principal of €490 million). Foreign Exchange Risk During 2006, net sales from our International segment (consisting of www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , www.amazon.fr , www.amazon.co.jp , and www.joyo.com ) accounted for 45% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America
segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same
as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange
rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates during 2006, International segment revenues increased $18 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk
related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2006 of $623 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement
would result in fair value declines of $30 million, $60 million, and $125 million. All investments are classified as “available for sale,” as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities . Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in foreign currency. Based on the net intercompany balances at December 31, 2006 of $386 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20%
strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to these foreign currencies would result in losses of $20 million, $40 million, and $80 million, recorded to “Remeasurements and other.” We have foreign exchange risk related to our 6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2006 of
€240 million ($317 million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2006). Due to fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, which we cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation under the 6.875% PEACS since
issuance in February 2000 has increased by $80 million as of December 31, 2006. Based on the outstanding 6.875% PEACS’ principal balance, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in
additional losses of approximately $15 million, $30 million, and $65 million, recorded to “Remeasurements and other.” Additionally, we have not hedged our interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS to protect against exchange rate
fluctuations. Assuming the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 20% in 2006, we would incur $1 million, $2 million, and $4 million additional annual interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange. See “Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of
December 31, 2006, our recorded basis in equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $27 million, including $7 million classified as “Marketable securities,” and $19 million classified as “Other
assets.” We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines in the fair value of such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The
fair values of our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market in general, company-specific circumstances, and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded
equity securities we held at December 31, 2006 of $59 million (recorded basis of $11 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding decline in total fair value of
approximately $10 million, $20 million, and $30 million. 43 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 45 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 46 Consolidated Statements of Operations 47 Consolidated Balance Sheets 48 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 49 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 50 44 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 40  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumer Customers We serve consumer customers through our retail websites, which include www.amazon.com, www.amazon.ca, www.amazon.de , www.amazon.fr , www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.co.uk, www.shopbop.com , www.endless.com and the Joyo Amazon websites at www.joyo.cn and www.amazon.cn . We seek to enable our consumer customers to find and discover anything
they might want to buy online, and endeavor to offer the lowest possible prices. We source and sell a broad range of products worldwide across dozens of product categories, including digital media. We also design, manufacture, market and sell a
wireless e-reading device, the Amazon Kindle. Our customer-facing businesses relentlessly focus on customer experience by offering a wide selection of merchandise, low prices, and convenience. Selection We endeavor to
provide the widest possible selection for customers worldwide, while continuing to focus on in-stock inventory availability. We have designed our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of
product categories, such as: •     Books •     Electronics &
Computers •     Toys, Kids & Baby •     Sports & Outdoors •     Movies, Music & Games •     Home &
Garden •     Apparel, Shoes & Jewelry •     Tools, Auto & Industrial •     Digital Downloads •     Grocery •     Health &
Beauty 3 Table of Contents Price We endeavor to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. We also strive to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices
for our customers. We enable sellers to offer their products on our sites, in many instances alongside our product selection, and to set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers, computer scientists, merchandisers, and management team
focus on continuous innovation to enhance convenience. We work to earn repeat purchases by providing easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, timely customer service, feature-rich and authoritative content, and a trusted transaction
environment. Key features of our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; gift guides; Web pages tailored to individual preferences, such as recommendations and notifications; 1-Click technology; secure
payment systems; digital content; searching; browsing; and the ability to view selected interior pages and citations, and search the entire contents of many of the books we offer with our “Search Inside the Book” feature. Our community of
online customers also creates feature-rich content, including product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, image uploads, video reviews, buying guides, customer discussions, and wedding and baby registries. We endeavor to fulfill customer orders quickly and accurately, and to provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have
questions. We communicate our fulfillment promise in several ways, such as presenting up-to-date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, as well as delivery shipment notifications. Customers
can use the “Your Account” website features to track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel items not yet shipped, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return
items. Additionally, when customers have questions, we provide an email address and phone number to contact customer service directly and an intuitive click-to-call feature on our help pages so customers can quickly and conveniently speak with a
customer service representative. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment
centers and warehouses that we operate; through fulfillment centers operated under co-sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www.amazon.co.jp ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment
providers supporting www.amazon.ca; and through fulfillment arrangements with other sellers. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by several co-sourcing customer service arrangements with third parties. See
  

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 6—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 20 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ 14,835 $ 10,711 $ 8,490 $ 6,921 $ 5,264 Income from operations 655 389 432 440 270 Income before change in accounting principle 476 190 333 588 35 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — 26 — — Net income 476 190 359 588 35 Basic earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 1.15 $ 0.46 $ 0.81 $ 1.45 $ 0.09 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — 0.06 — — Basic earnings per share (1) $ 1.15 $ 0.46 $ 0.87 $ 1.45 $ 0.09 Diluted earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 1.12 $ 0.45 $ 0.78 $ 1.39 $ 0.08 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — 0.06 — — Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.12 $ 0.45 $ 0.84 $ 1.39 $ 0.08 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 413 416 412 406 395 Diluted 424 424 426 425 419 Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,405 $ 702 $ 733 $ 566 $ 393 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (224 ) (216 ) (204 ) (89 ) (46 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 1,181 $ 486 $ 529 $ 477 $ 347 December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ 6,485 $ 4,363 $ 3,696 $ 3,248 $ 2,162 Long-term debt 1,282 1,247 1,480 1,835 1,919 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and
website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 21 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking
Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are
forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently
uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the
Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the
extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory
management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and
uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has
defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective
judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting
policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these
estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate
units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery
of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent , in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary party
obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned
are determined using a percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made
pursuant to sales contracts that generally provide for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the 24 Table of Contents carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue
from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales taxes. Amounts paid in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue over the
subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where a standalone value for each element cannot be established, we recognize the revenue and related cost over the estimated economic life of the product. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage
discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the
purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical
experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are classified as an offsetting amount in “Net sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item is sold by the seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. When
we are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when risk of loss and title transfer to the customer. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Inventories Inventories, consisting
of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information,
about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount
of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our agreements.
In those arrangements, as well as other product sales by other sellers, the seller maintains ownership of the related products. As such, these amounts are not included in our consolidated balance sheets. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Included in fixed assets is the capitalized cost of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. As required by Statement of Position (SOP)
98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use,” we capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage of internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated
useful life of two years. Costs incurred related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred. Currency
Effect on Intercompany Balances Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included in net income. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined 25 Table of Contents based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Since we primarily issue restricted stock units to our employees, the
complexity of valuation issues for stock compensation is greatly reduced. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such
amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results and future
estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than a straight-line method, for
recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the compensation cost would be expensed in the first year of a four year vesting term. The accelerated method also adds a level of complexity in estimating forfeitures. If forfeited
early in the life of an award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is
required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish
reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves for tax contingencies are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our
belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audit. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes
to reserves that are considered appropriate. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. The majority of our gross deferred tax assets relate to net operating loss
carryforwards that related to differences in stock-based compensation between the financial statements and our tax returns. Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be
realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income by taxing jurisdiction, the
carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, we allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata
basis. If we determine that additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable the majority of the benefit will come from the
assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements but was claimed on the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit
generated will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation
(FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with
SFAS No. 109. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related
appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our
tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. 26 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The FASB may delay a portion of this standard. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS
No. 159 permits companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We do not
expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 141 (R), Business Combinations , and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 141 (R) requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling
interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 141 (R) and SFAS
No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. We have not yet determined the effect on our consolidated financial statements, if any, upon adoption
of SFAS No. 141 (R) or SFAS No. 160. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,405 $ 702 $ 733 Investing activities 42 (333 ) (778 ) Financing activities 50 (400 ) (193 ) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $1.18 billion for 2007, compared to $486 million
and $529 million for 2006 and 2005. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The increase in free cash flow in 2007 primarily
resulted from the increased growth rate of our revenue and gross profit relative to operating expenses. The decrease in free cash flow in 2006 was primarily driven by our increased expenditure in technology and content and excess tax benefits from
stock-based compensation deductions now classified as financing cash flows. Free cash flow for 2005 included the effect of our payment of a $40 million patent litigation settlement. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are
sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, and the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and
category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our
principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $3.1 billion, $2.0 billion, and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $1.2 billion, $623 million, and 27 Table of Contents $905 million at December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion, $702 million, and $733 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005. Our operating cash flows result primarily
from cash received from our customers, from sellers, and from non-retail activities such as our co-branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, offset by cash payments we make
for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant to SOP 98-1 that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on
our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers, sellers, developers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle
quickly. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, cash
outlays for acquisitions and intellectual property rights, and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $42 million, $(333) million, and $(778)
million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Capital expenditures were $224 million, $216 million and $204 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, with the sequential
increases primarily reflecting additional investments in technology infrastructure, fulfillment-related assets and the development of new features and product offerings on our websites. Capital expenditures included $108 million, $108 million and
$79 million for internal-use software and website development during 2007, 2006 and 2005. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We made payments for the acquisition
of certain companies and intellectual property rights, resulting in cash payments, net of acquired cash, of $75 million, $32 million, and $24 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005 attributable to cash provided by investing activities. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $50 million, $(400) million, and $(193) million in 2007, 2006, and 2005. Cash outflows from financing
activities result from repurchases of common stock, repayments of long-term debt, and payments on capital lease obligations. We repurchased 6 million shares of common stock for $248 million in 2007, and 8 million shares of common stock for
$252 million in 2006, under a $500 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in 2006. Repayments on long-term debt and payments on capital lease obligations were $74 million, $383 million, and $270 million in 2007, 2006, and
2005. Repayments on long-term debt include €250 million and €200 million of our 6.875% PEACS for $300 million and $265 million in 2006 and 2005. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt.” Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and exercises of employee stock options. SFAS
No. 123(R), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , requires tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions be presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation
deductions were $257 million, $102 million and $7 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005. Cash inflows from proceeds from exercise of employee stock options were $91 million, $35 million, and $59 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005. We expect cash proceeds
from exercises of stock options will decline over time as we continue issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. In 2007, 2006 and 2005 we recorded net tax provisions of $184 million, $187 million, and $95 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based
compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid were $24 million, $15 million, and $12 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather
than on a financial reporting basis. In February 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a debt repurchase program, replacing our previous
debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open 28 Table of Contents market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to all of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009
(“4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes”) and 6.875% PEACS. The outstanding principal of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes as of this authorization was $899 million, and the outstanding principal amount of our 6.875% PEACS was
€240 million. In August 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, pursuant to which we repurchased $252 million and $248 million of our common stock in 2006 and 2007,
respectively. In April 2007, our Board authorized a new 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, which was replaced in February 2008 by a 24-month program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are denominated in Euros, our U.S. Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations
fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. As a result, any fluctuations in the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest expense and, to the extent we make principal payments, the amount of U.S. Dollar equivalents
necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS is due in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses on currency movements until the date of the interest payment. Gains or
losses on the remeasurement of our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified as “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. On average, our high inventory velocity means we collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 13, 13, and
14 for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Inventory turnover has declined slightly over the last several years, primarily due to category expansion and changes in product mix, and our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, which enables faster
delivery of products to our customers. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock
inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments as of December 31, 2007: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total (in millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal (1) $ 17 $ 932 $ 350 $ — $ — $ — $ 1,299 Debt interest (1) 69 46 24 — — — 139 Capital leases, including interest 32 29 23 6 6 5 101 Operating leases 132 107 89 69 52 201 650 Other commitments (2)(3) 60 64 80 60 43 579 886 Purchase obligations (4) 485 — — — — — 485 Total commitments $ 795 $ 1,178 $ 566 $ 135 $ 101 $ 785 $ 3,560 (1) At December 31, 2007, the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate was 1.459. Due to changes in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation under
the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $114 million as of December 31, 2007. The principal and interest commitments reflect the partial redemptions of the 6.875% PEACS and 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately 800,000 square feet of
corporate office space in Seattle, Washington. We also have the right to occupy up to an additional approximately 800,000 square feet subject to a termination fee, estimated to be up to approximately $40 million, if we do not elect to occupy
this additional space. The amount of space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected by various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and other expenses
and our exercise of certain rights under the lease agreements. See 29 Table of Contents 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Commitments and Contingencies—Commitments.” (3) Includes commitments to acquire intellectual property and unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48, but excludes $105 million of such unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot
make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Income Taxes.” (4) Consists of legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and significant non-inventory commitments. In January 2008 we closed or entered into agreements, subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions, to acquire or invest in certain companies.
These acquisitions and investments result in aggregate cash payments of approximately $400 million, net of cash acquired. Pledged
Securities We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby
letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of
pledged securities at December 31, 2007 consisted of $14 million in “Cash and cash equivalents” and “Marketable securities,” and $197 million in “Other assets.” The amount required to be pledged for certain real
estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases based on our credit rating and changes in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock). Information about collateral required to
be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby and Trade Letters of Credit and Guarantees Debt (1) Real Estate Leases (2) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 60 $ 56 $ 20 $ 136 Net change in collateral pledged 78 4 (7 ) 75 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 138 $ 60 $ 13 $ 211 (1) Represents collateral for certain debt related to our international operations. (2) At December 31, 2006, our market capitalization was $38.6 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $5 million if our market capitalization is
equal to or below $18 billion and by an additional $6 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $13 billion. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows
are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Fulfillment The increase in
fulfillment costs in absolute dollars during 2007 in comparison with the prior years relates to variable costs corresponding with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix of product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs,
including mix of payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain marketplace seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain seller transactions, our level
of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing
improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment
processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of revenue versus our retail sales, our sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. We expanded our fulfillment capacity in 2007, 2006, and 2005 through gains in efficiencies and increases in leased warehouse space. This expansion is
designed to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment. Marketing We direct customers
to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, and other initiatives. 35 Table of Contents Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for
these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense or its effect. Marketing costs increased in absolute dollars in 2007 compared to 2006 and 2005, due to increased spending in variable online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, and other variable
marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included in marketing expense, we view free shipping offers and
Amazon Prime as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We continue to invest in several areas of technology and content including seller platforms, web services, and digital initiatives,
as well as expansion of new and existing product categories. We are also investing in technology infrastructure so that we can continue to enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiency and support our infrastructure web services.
See “Overview” above for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. The growth rate of our technology and content spending decreased in 2007 compared to the prior year. We intend to
continue investing in areas of technology and content as we continue to add employees to our staff and add technology infrastructure. For
the years ended 2007, 2006, and 2005, we capitalized $129 million, $123 million, and $90 million of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $116 million, $86 million,
and $50 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. A significant majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and most of them are
allocated to our North America segment. General and Administrative The increase in spending in general and administrative in 2007 compared to 2006 and 2005 is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses,
and professional fees. Stock-Based Compensation As of January 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on
date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common
stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated
estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and
historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. The adoption of SFAS
No. 123(R) resulted in a cumulative benefit from accounting change of $26 million in 2005, which reflects the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when
they occur as previously permitted. Stock-based compensation was $185 million, $101 million and $87 million during 2007, 2006, and 2005.
The increase in stock-based compensation is primarily attributable to an increase in total stock compensation value granted to our employees. 36 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, was $9 million and $10 million during 2007 and 2006, primarily attributable to amortization of other intangibles. Other
operating expense, net, was $47 million in 2005, primarily attributable to our settlement of a patent lawsuit for $40 million, as well as amortization of other intangibles of $5 million. Income from Operations Income
from operations was $655 million, $389 million, and $432 million during 2007, 2006, and 2005. The increase in 2007 from 2006 is primarily a result of the increased growth rate of our revenue and gross profit relative to operating expenses. The
decrease in 2006 from 2005 is primarily a result of an increase in spending for technology and content. Interest Expense and Income The primary component of our net interest expense is the interest we incur on our long-term debt instruments, including a $899
million principal balance of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and a €240 million ($350 million based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2007) principal balance of our 6.875% PEACS at December 31, 2007. Interest expense
was $77 million, $78 million, and $92 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, with declines primarily relating to principal repayments of $300 million and $265 million in 2006 and 2005. Our total long-term indebtedness was $1.3 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 4—Long-Term Debt.” Our interest income was $90 million, $59 million, and $44 million during 2007,
2006, and 2005. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the
prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Other
Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, was $(1) million, $(4) million, and $2 million, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, and
consisted primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS, as well as foreign-currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments. Since interest payments on our
6.875% PEACS are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS $ (33 ) $ (37 ) $ 90 Loss on redemption of long-term debt — (6 ) (6 ) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on intercompany balances 32 50 (47 ) Other (6 ) 4 5 Total remeasurements and other $ (7 ) $ 11 $ 42 (1) Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to “Remeasurements and other” on our consolidated
statements of operations. 37 Table of Contents (2) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement of intercompany balances due to changes in foreign exchange rates. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Foreign Currency.” Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $184 million, $187 million, and $95 million, in 2007, 2006
and 2005. The effective tax rate in 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. The effective tax
rate in 2006 was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate resulting from establishment of our European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment of our
European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions. Included in the 2005 provision and reducing the impact of the international restructure is a tax benefit of $90 million, resulting from
certain of our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $0.22 and $0.21 of basic and diluted earnings per share. We expect our effective tax rate in 2008 to be approximately 30%. However, our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including from accurately predicting our taxable income,
the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates, and business acquisitions and investments. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable
income. As such, we expect a majority of our net tax provision to be non-cash. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per
share data): Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 14,436 $ 399 $ 14,835 $ 10,687 $ 24 $ 10,711 $ 8,563 $ (73 ) $ 8,490 Gross profit 3,274 79 3,353 2,455 1 2,456 2,052 (13 ) 2,039 Operating expenses 2,648 50 2,698 2,064 3 2,067 1,612 (5 ) 1,607 Income from operations 626 29 655 391 (2 ) 389 440 (8 ) 432 Net interest income (expense) and other (3) 11 1 12 (17 ) (6 ) (23 ) (52 ) 6 (46 ) Remeasurements and other income (expense) (4) (6 ) (1 ) (7 ) (2 ) 13 11 1 41 42 Net income 456 20 476 188 2 190 328 31 359 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results,
and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results, and
if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. 38 Table of Contents (3) Includes foreign-currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments. (4) Includes foreign-currency gains and losses on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of “Free cash flow” meets the
definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash
flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to review our
financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which
we reconcile to “Net cash provided by operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on
it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In
limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less
than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for
discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our
entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure,
“Net cash provided by operating activities” for 2007, 2006, and 2005 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,405 $ 702 $ 733 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (224 ) (216 ) (204 ) Free cash flow $ 1,181 $ 486 $ 529 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 42 $ (333 ) $ (778 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 50 $ (400 ) $ (193 ) In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide
this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding
stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent
with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based
compensation have limitations due to the fact that they do not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in 39 Table of Contents the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,”
“Marketing,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. We compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards in the footnotes to our financial statements.
Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of our compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as appropriate in results of operations. Guidance The Company provided guidance on
January 30, 2008 in its earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter 2008 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $3.95 billion and $4.15 billion, or to grow between 31% and 38% compared with first quarter 2007. • Operating income is expected to be between $155 million and $200 million, or to grow between 7% and 38% compared with first quarter 2007. This guidance includes $55
million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional acquired intangible assets are recorded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. Full Year 2008 Expectations • Net sales are expected to be between $18.75 billion and $19.75 billion, or to grow between 26% and 33% compared with 2007. • Operating income is expected to be between $785 million and $985 million, or to grow between 20% and 50% compared with 2007. This guidance includes $240 million for
stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional acquired intangible assets are recorded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent
and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income
securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates. 40 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income
securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2007 (in millions, except percentages): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2007 Money market funds $ 1,408 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,408 $ 1,408 Weighted average interest rate 4.42 % — — — — — 4.42 % Certificates of deposit — — — — — — — — Weighted average interest rate — — — — — — — Corporate debt securities 6 16 26 49 18 — 115 116 Weighted average interest rate 5.11 % 4.65 % 4.78 % 4.59 % 4.85 % — 4.71 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 120 49 49 33 46 — 297 301 Weighted average interest rate 4.26 % 3.20 % 3.69 % 3.72 % 3.46 % — 3.81 % Asset backed securities 10 31 30 28 1 1 101 101 Weighted average interest rate 5.17 % 4.80 % 4.74 % 4.99 % 4.62 % 4.65 % 4.87 % Foreign government and agency securities 274 30 18 26 9 — 357 357 Weighted average interest rate 4.28 % 3.49 % 3.71 % 3.89 % 3.83 % — 4.15 % Other securities — 4 — — — — 4 4 Weighted average interest rate — 4.55 % — — — — 4.55 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,818 $ 130 $ 123 $ 136 $ 74 $ 1 $ 2,282 $ 2,287 The following table provides information about
our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2006 (in millions, except percentages): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2006 Money market funds $ 763 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 763 $ 763 Weighted average interest rate 3.92 % — — — — — 3.92 % Certificates of deposit 50 — — — — — 50 50 Weighted average interest rate 5.25 % — — — — — 5.25 % Corporate debt securities 266 45 40 29 39 — 419 419 Weighted average interest rate 5.47 % 5.43 % 5.23 % 5.04 % 4.83 % — 5.35 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 53 32 20 39 27 37 208 207 Weighted average interest rate 5.24 % 4.77 % 4.88 % 4.85 % 4.95 % 5.46 % 5.06 % Asset backed securities 238 32 40 29 9 — 348 347 Weighted average interest rate 5.47 % 5.42 % 5.28 % 5.19 % 5.91 % — 5.43 % Foreign government and agency securities 21 28 21 17 18 — 105 104 Weighted average interest rate 3.74 % 3.83 % 3.83 % 3.86 % 3.87 % — 3.82 % Other securities — 2 2 — — — 4 4 Weighted average interest rate — 5.08 % 5.12 % — — — 5.10 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 1,391 $ 139 $ 123 $ 114 $ 93 $ 37 $ 1,897 $ 1,894 At December 31, 2007, we had long-term debt of $1.3 billion primarily associated with our
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2009 and 2010. The fair value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in
periods of increasing rates of interest. 41 Table of Contents Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $1.1
billion at December 31, 2007 (outstanding principal of $899 million) and $883 million (outstanding principal of $900 million) at December 31, 2006. The fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was $358 million at December 31, 2007 (outstanding
principal of €240 million), and $320 million at December 31, 2006 (outstanding principal of €240 million). Foreign
Exchange Risk During 2007, net sales from our International segment accounted for 45% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and
related expenses generated from our international websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily
include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany
balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may
record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2007, International segment revenues increased $390 million in comparison with the prior
year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign
funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2007 of $1.2 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $60 million, $120 million, and $240 million. All investments
are classified as “available for sale,” as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities . Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances
denominated in foreign currency. Based on the net intercompany balances at December 31, 2007 of $250 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to these foreign currencies would result in losses of
$15 million, $25 million, and $50 million, recorded to “Remeasurements and other.” We have foreign exchange risk related to our
6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance at December 31, 2007 of €240 million ($350 million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2007). Due to fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, which
we cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $114 million as of December 31, 2007. Based on the outstanding 6.875% PEACS’ principal balance, an assumed
5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in additional losses of approximately $20 million, $35 million, and $70 million, recorded to “Remeasurements and other.” Additionally, we have not
hedged our interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS to protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 20% in 2007, we would incur $1 million, $2 million, and $5 million additional
annual interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange. See “Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional
information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2007, our recorded basis in equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $29 million, including
$12 million classified as “Marketable securities,” and $17 million classified as “Other assets.” We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that
declines in the fair value of such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values of our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market in general, company-specific
circumstances, and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at December 31, 2007 of $55 million (recorded basis of $12 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change
to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately $10 million, $15 million, and $25 million. 42 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 44 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 45 Consolidated Statements of Operations 46 Consolidated Balance Sheets 47 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 48 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 49 43 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Income Taxes.” In January 2008 we closed or entered into agreements, subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions, to acquire or invest in certain companies.
These acquisitions and investments result in aggregate cash payments of approximately $400 million, net of cash acquired. Pledged
Securities We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby
letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of
pledged securities at December 31, 2007 consisted of $14 million in “Cash and cash equivalents” and “Marketable securities,” and $197 million in “Other assets.” The amount required to be pledged for certain real
estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases based on our credit rating and changes in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock). Information about collateral required to
be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby and Trade Letters of Credit and Guarantees Debt (1) Real Estate Leases (2) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 60 $ 56 $ 20 $ 136 Net change in collateral pledged 78 4 (7 ) 75 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 138 $ 60 $ 13 $ 211 (1) Represents collateral for certain debt related to our international operations. (2) At December 31, 2007, our market capitalization was $38.6 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $5 million if our market capitalization is
equal to or below $18 billion and by an additional $6 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $13 billion. 64 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In October 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the
agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. In November 2005, the Court dismissed all
of the plaintiff’s claims with prejudice. The plaintiff is appealing that dismissal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint, and we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant, Beeler,
Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect
and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys’
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In May 2004, Toysrus.com LLC filed a complaint
against us for breach of contract in the Superior Court of New Jersey. The complaint alleged that we breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus.com LLC by selling, and by permitting other third parties to sell, products that Toysrus.com LLC
alleged it has an exclusive right to sell on our website. We disputed the allegations in the complaint and brought counterclaims alleging breach of contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial of both parties’ claims concluded
in November 2005. In March 2006, the Court entered a judgment in favor of Toysrus.com LLC, terminating the contract but declining to award damages to either party. We are pursuing an appeal of the lower court’s rulings terminating the contract,
declining to award us damages, and denying our motion to compel Toysrus.com to pay certain fees incurred during the wind-down period. In
December 2005, Registrar Systems LLC filed a complaint against us and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the
method by which Amazon.com enables customers to use Amazon.com account information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and
apparatuses for a “World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment
interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2006, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of
the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patents in suit. In August 2006, Cordance Corporation filed a complaint
against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including 65 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained by Cordance purporting to cover an “Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure” (U.S.
Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In response, we asserted
a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent owned by us entitled “Networked Personal Contact Manager” (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369).
We dispute Cordance’s allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In April 2007, SBJ Holdings
1, LLC filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes a patent obtained by SBJ Holdings 1 purporting to cover a “Method,
Memory, Product, and Code for Displaying Pre-Customized Content Associated with Visitor Data” (U.S. Patent No. 6,330,592) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment and
post-judgment interest, costs and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in the matter. In August 2007, Polaris IP, LLC filed a complaint against us and others in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes a patent
obtained by Polaris purporting to cover an “Automatic Message Interpretation and Routing System” (U.S. Patent No. 6,411,947) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and
attorneys’ fees. In November 2007, we entered into a settlement of the litigation that included, among other things, a non-exclusive license to the patent in suit. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. See also “Note 12—Income Taxes.” Inventory Suppliers During 2007, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do not have long-term
contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Note 7—STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Stock Repurchase Activity In August
2006, our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, pursuant to which we repurchased $252 million and $248 million of our common stock in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In April 2007, our
Board authorized a new 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, which was replaced in February 2008 by a 24-month program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. 66 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Outstanding
stock options generally have a term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock options outstanding have a weighted average exercise life of 3.5 years, with a weighted average exercise price of $17.46. Stock Award Activity We granted
stock awards, which consist primarily of restricted stock units, representing 7.6 million, 9.1 million, and 6.0 million shares of common stock during 2007, 2006, and 2005 with a per share weighted average fair value of $47.04, $36.48,
and $36.50. Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Restricted stock units 16.3 14.5 Stock options 1.9 7.4 Total outstanding stock awards 18.2 21.9 Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding
stock options and restricted stock units totaled 435 million, 436 million, and 438 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures,
consisting of vested and unvested awards and in-the-money and out-of-the-money stock options. Common shares outstanding decreased in both 2007 and 2006 due to repurchases of common stock, offset by exercises of stock options, vesting of restricted
stock units, and matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in
millions): Number of Units Outstanding at January 1, 2005 6.4 Units granted 6.0 Units vested (1.2 ) Units cancelled (1.3 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2005 9.9 Units granted 9.1 Units vested (1.7 ) Units cancelled (2.8 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2006 14.5 Units granted 7.6 Units vested (3.3 ) Units cancelled (2.5 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2007 16.3 67 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2007 is as follows (in
millions): Year Ended December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 5.6 5.8 2.9 1.4 0.4 0.2 16.3 As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.09 million and
0.15 million shares of common stock for years ended 2007 and 2006. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. As of December 31, 2007, there was $252 million of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements.
This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average recognition period of 1.2 years. During 2007 and 2006, the fair value of restricted stock units vested was $224 million and $68 million. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2007, common stock available for future issuance is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2007 Stock awards 129.3 Shares issuable upon conversion of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes 11.5 Shares issuable upon conversion of 6.875% PEACS 2.8 Total common stock reserved for future issuance 143.6 Note 8—OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The changes in the components of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Net income $ 476 $ 190 $ 359 Net activity on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the year, net of tax 8 4 (14 ) Reclassification adjustment for net realized gains/losses included in net income, net of tax — — — Net change in unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities 8 4 (14 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax (3 ) (13 ) (15 ) Amortization of net unrealized losses on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax 1 2 3 Other comprehensive income (loss) 6 (7 ) (26 ) Comprehensive income $ 482 $ 183 $ 333 68 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Net unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency translation, net of tax $ (1 ) $ 2 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 7 (1 ) Net unrealized losses on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax (1 ) (2 ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ 5 $ (1 ) Note 9—OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE, NET Other operating expense, net, was $9 million and $10 million in 2007 and 2006, primarily attributable to amortization of other intangibles. Other
operating expense, net, was $47 million in 2005, primarily attributable to our settlement of a patent lawsuit for $40 million, as well as amortization of other intangibles of $5 million. Note 10—OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net, was $(1) million, $(4)
million, and $2 million, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, and consisted primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS, as well as foreign-currency gains and losses
on cross-currency investments. Since interest payments on our 6.875% PEACS are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro between
reporting dates and payment. Note 11—REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS $ (33 ) $ (37 ) $ 90 Loss on redemption of long-term debt — (6 ) (6 ) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on intercompany balances 32 50 (47 ) Other (6 ) 4 5 Total remeasurements and other $ (7 ) $ 11 $ 42 Note 12—INCOME TAXES In 2007, 2006 and 2005 we recorded net tax provisions of $184 million, $187 million, and $95 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess
stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid were $24 million, $15 million, and $12 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. 69 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The components of the provision for income taxes, net were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Current taxes: U.S. and state $ 275 $ 162 $ 16 International 8 3 9 Current taxes 283 165 25 Deferred taxes (99 ) 22 70 Provision for income taxes, net $ 184 $ 187 $ 95 U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) U.S. $ 360 $ 396 $ 601 International 300 (19 ) (173 ) Income before income taxes $ 660 $ 377 $ 428 The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate
and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Effect of: Valuation allowance (1.2 ) (2.6 ) (31.1 ) Impact of international operations restructuring (12.3 ) 16.0 15.1 Other, net 6.4 1.2 3.3 Total 27.9 % 49.6 % 22.3 % The effective tax rate in 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to
earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. The effective tax rate in 2006 was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate resulting from establishment of our European
headquarters in Luxembourg. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and
exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions. Included in the 2005 provision and reducing the impact of the
international restructure was a tax benefit of $90 million, resulting from certain of our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $0.22 and $0.21 of basic and diluted earnings per share. 70 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The significant components of deferred income tax expense attributable to income from operations for
2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Deferred tax expense (benefit) exclusive of the effect of the items listed below $ (91 ) $ 32 $ 188 Decrease in valuation allowance (8 ) (10 ) (90 ) Tax benefit of net operating and capital loss carryforwards — — (28 ) Total deferred tax expense (benefit) $ (99 ) $ 22 $ 70 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses—stock-based compensation (1) $ 120 $ 120 Net operating losses—other 28 23 Assets held for investment 167 174 Revenue items 58 20 Expense items, including stock-based compensation 210 149 Net tax credits (2) 2 7 Deferred tax assets under FIN 48 22 — Total gross deferred tax assets 607 493 Less valuation allowance (3) (195 ) (216 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 412 277 Deferred tax liabilities: Expense items (24 ) (13 ) Deferred tax liabilities under FIN 48 (3 ) — Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities $ 385 $ 264 (1) Presented net of fully reserved NOL deferred tax asset of $219 million and $381 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The total gross deferred tax assets relating to our
excess stock-based compensation NOLs at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $339 million and $501 million (relating to approximately $1.1 billion and $1.6 billion of NOLs). (2) Presented net of fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with tax credits of $95 million and $67 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Total tax credits available to be
claimed in future years are approximately $129 million and $101 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. (3) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of future capital gains and net income in certain taxing jurisdictions. We have not fully utilized NOLs which were generated in the years 1996 through 2003, so that the statute of limitations for
these years remains open for purposes of adjusting the amounts of the losses carried forward from those years. The majority of our NOLs begin to expire in 2019 and thereafter. 71 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and
determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on
estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust
these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audit. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. Accruals for tax
contingencies are provided for in accordance with the requirements of FIN 48. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows
(in millions): Gross tax contingencies—January 1, 2007 $ 110 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 6 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (3 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 4 Audit settlements paid during 2007 (5 ) Gross tax contingencies—December 31, 2007 (1) $ 112 (1) As of December 31, 2007, we had $112 million of tax contingencies of which $118 million, if fully recognized, would affect our effective tax rate and increase additional
paid-in capital by $6 million to reflect the tax benefits of excess stock-based compensation deductions. As of
December 31, 2007, changes to our tax contingencies that are reasonably possible in the next 12 months are not material. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. As of
December 31, 2007, we had accrued interest and penalties related to tax contingencies of $9 million, net of federal income tax benefits, on our balance sheet. Interest and penalties recognized for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1
million, net of federal income tax benefits. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”) for calendar years 2004 through 2006. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in these years may also be subject to examination by the IRS. We are under examination, or may be subject
to examination, in the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2003 through 2006, France for 2005 through 2006, Germany for 2004 through 2006, Luxembourg for 2003 through 2006, and the United Kingdom for 1999 through
2006. In addition, in February 2007, Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $93 million against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005. We believe that these claims are
without merit and are disputing the assessment. Further proceedings on the assessment will be stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raises, and we have provided bank
guarantees to suspend enforcement of the assessment. We also may be subject to income tax examination by Japanese tax authorities for 2006. Note
13—SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present
our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. 72 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,”
“Technology and content,” and “General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. Additionally, we do not allocate the line item “Other
operating expense, net” to our segment operating results. A significant majority of our costs for “Technology and content” are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are
no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North
America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com, www.amazon.ca, www.shopbop.com, and www.endless.com ; from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such as North America-focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions,
Amazon Web Services and marketing, and promotional services. This segment includes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer
products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such as www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , www.amazon.co.jp , www.amazon.fr , and our Joyo Amazon websites at www.joyo.cn and www.amazon.cn ; from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such as internationally focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, Amazon Web Services and marketing and promotional services. This segment includes export
sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . 73 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) North America Net sales $ 8,095 $ 5,869 $ 4,711 Cost of sales 6,064 4,344 3,444 Gross profit 2,031 1,525 1,267 Direct segment operating expenses 1,631 1,295 971 Segment operating income $ 400 $ 230 $ 296 International Net sales $ 6,740 $ 4,842 $ 3,779 Cost of sales 5,418 3,911 3,007 Gross profit 1,322 931 772 Direct segment operating expenses 873 661 502 Segment operating income $ 449 $ 270 $ 270 Consolidated Net sales $ 14,835 $ 10,711 $ 8,490 Cost of sales 11,482 8,255 6,451 Gross profit 3,353 2,456 2,039 Direct segment operating expenses 2,504 1,956 1,473 Segment operating income 849 500 566 Stock-based compensation (185 ) (101 ) (87 ) Other operating expense, net (9 ) (10 ) (47 ) Income from operations 655 389 432 Total non-operating income (expense), net 5 (12 ) (4 ) Provision for income taxes (184 ) (187 ) (95 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — 26 Net income $ 476 $ 190 $ 359 Net sales shipped to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately half of net sales for
2007, 2006, and 2005. Net sales from www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , and www.amazon.co.jp each represented 10% or more of consolidated net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Net fixed assets held in locations outside the U.S. were
$139 million, $108 million, and $68 million at December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. Total assets, by segment, reconciled to
consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2007 2006 North America $ 4,227 $ 2,801 International 2,258 1,562 Consolidated $ 6,485 $ 4,363 74 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Depreciation expense, by segment, was as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 North America $ 212 $ 166 $ 94 International 46 34 19 Consolidated $ 258 $ 200 $ 113 Note 14—FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values of our financial instruments were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2007 2006 Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,539 $ 2,539 $ 1,022 $ 1,022 Marketable securities (1) 573 573 997 997 Other equity investments (2) 17 43 19 51 Long-term debt (3) 1,282 1,466 1,247 1,234 (1) The fair value of marketable securities is determined from publicly quoted prices. See “Note 2—Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.” (2) The fair value of other equity investments is determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount of privately-held investments for which market values are not readily
determinable. We evaluate “Other equity investments” for impairment in accordance with our stated policy. See “Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” (3) The fair value of our long-term debt is determined based on quoted prices. See “Note 4—Long-Term Debt.” Note 15—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The
following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2007 and 2006. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the
periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter,
which ends December 31. Unaudited quarterly results were as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2007 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 5,673 $ 3,262 $ 2,886 $ 3,015 Gross profit 1,170 762 701 719 Income before income taxes 281 124 111 144 Provision for income taxes 74 44 33 33 Net income 207 80 78 111 Basic earnings per share $ 0.50 $ 0.19 $ 0.19 $ 0.27 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.48 $ 0.19 $ 0.19 $ 0.26 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 416 414 412 412 Diluted 427 425 423 420 75 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Year Ended December 31, 2006 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 3,986 $ 2,307 $ 2,139 $ 2,279 Gross profit 850 549 509 547 Income before income taxes 189 38 54 96 Provision for income taxes 91 19 32 45 Net income 98 19 22 51 Basic earnings per share $ 0.24 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.12 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.23 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.12 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 413 417 418 417 Diluted 422 424 426 426 (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number
of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. 76 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 39  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 13—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental
Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumer Customers We serve our consumer customers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of
unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers, including Amazon Prime, and to
improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment through our global fulfillment center network, timely customer service, and a
trusted transaction environment. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment
centers and warehouses that we operate and through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On February 8, 2008, we publicly announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase up to $1 billion of the Company’s common stock on or before February 8, 2010. We may make
these purchases in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions and in discretionary purchases or pursuant to pre-established purchase plans. The table below sets forth information regarding our purchases of our common stock during
Q4 2008 (in millions, except per share data): Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of
Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the
Program October 1 - October 31, 2008 — $ — — $ 1,000 November 1 - November 30, 2008 2.2 45.78 2.2 900 December 1 - December 31, 2008 — — — 900 Total 2.2 2.2 18 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the
information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ 19,166 $ 14,835 $ 10,711 $ 8,490 $ 6,921 Income from operations 842 655 389 432 440 Income before change in accounting principle 645 476 190 333 588 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — 26 — Net income 645 476 190 359 588 Basic earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 1.52 $ 1.15 $ 0.46 $ 0.81 $ 1.45 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — 0.06 — Basic earnings per share (1) $ 1.52 $ 1.15 $ 0.46 $ 0.87 $ 1.45 Diluted earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 1.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.45 $ 0.78 $ 1.39 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — 0.06 — Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.45 $ 0.84 $ 1.39 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 423 413 416 412 406 Diluted 432 424 424 426 425 Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,697 $ 1,405 $ 702 $ 733 $ 566 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (333 ) (224 ) (216 ) (204 ) (89 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 1,364 $ 1,181 $ 486 $ 529 $ 477 December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ 8,314 $ 6,485 $ 4,363 $ 3,696 $ 3,248 Long-term debt 409 1,282 1,247 1,480 1,835 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and
website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 19 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as
anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ
materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that
Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition,
management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the
Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of
these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting
Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States
(“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its
most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also
have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may
differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate
units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery
of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent , in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary party
obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned
are determined using a percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made
pursuant to sales contracts that generally provide for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using
historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales taxes. Amounts paid in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and 22 Table of Contents other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where a standalone
value for each element cannot be established, we recognize the revenue and related cost over the estimated economic life of the product. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts
subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our
customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are
classified as an offsetting amount in “Net sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts
earned through other seller sites are recognized when the item is sold by the seller and our collectability is reasonably assured. When we are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when risk of loss and title
transfer to the customer. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and
are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product
vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our agreements. In those arrangements, as well as other product sales by other
sellers, the seller maintains ownership of the related products. As such, these amounts are not included in our consolidated balance sheets. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and
AAA-rated money market funds. We also have equity-method investments in private companies where we can exercise significant influence over, but not control, the entity. We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments are
other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment. Factors considered include, if
applicable, quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; or other conditions that may affect the value of our
investments. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change to suggest that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first
comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment. We estimate fair value using discounted
cash flows of reporting units. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on projected category expansion, pricing expectations, market segment penetration and general
economic conditions. Additionally, certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and 23 Table of Contents developing revenue models. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated and compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below
carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. The financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to
determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short term swing or a longer-term trend. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Included in fixed assets is the capitalized cost of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. As required by Statement of Position (SOP)
98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use,” we capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage of internal-use software and amortize these costs over its estimated
useful life of two years. Costs incurred related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation over the
service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will
ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when
estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than a straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the
compensation cost would be expensed in the first year of a four year vesting term. The accelerated method also adds a higher level of sensitivity and complexity in estimating forfeitures. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the forfeited
amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and
determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on
estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves for tax contingencies are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully
supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audit. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their
tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. The majority of our gross deferred tax assets relate to net operating loss carryforwards attributable to differences in stock-based
compensation between the financial statements and our tax returns. 24 Table of Contents Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes ,
requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our
deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, we allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. If we determine that additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable the majority of the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the
financial statements, but was claimed on the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit generated will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies) accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The first step is to evaluate the tax
position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step
is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic
adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. For financial assets and liabilities, SFAS No. 157 was effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. See “Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies” and “Note 2—Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities” for further discussion.
In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. 157-2 which delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 one year for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those recognized or disclosed at fair value in
the financial statements on a recurring basis. FSP 157-2 is effective for us beginning January 1, 2009. Those assets and liabilities
measured at fair value under SFAS No. 157 in Q1 2008 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with FSP 157-2, we will measure the remaining assets and liabilities beginning Q1 2009. We do not expect
the adoption of SFAS No. 157, as amended by FSP 157-2, will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R), Business Combinations , and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 141 (R) requires an acquirer to measure the
identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS
No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the
parent. SFAS No. 141 (R) and SFAS No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 141
(R) and SFAS No. 160 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP
No. 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets . FSP No. 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to 25 Table of Contents determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . FSP No. 142-3
is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. We do not expect the adoption of FSP No. 142-3 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements. In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 07-05, Determining Whether an Instrument (or
Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity’s Own Stock . EITF Issue No. 07-05 clarifies the determination of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity’s own stock, which would qualify as a scope
exception under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . EITF Issue No. 07-05 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption
for an existing instrument is not permitted. We do not expect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 07-05 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,697 $ 1,405 $ 702 Investing activities (1,199 ) 42 (333 ) Financing activities (198 ) 50 (400 ) Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a
non-GAAP financial measure, was $1.36 billion for 2008, compared to $1.18 billion and $486 million for 2007 and 2006. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash
provided by operating activities. The increase in free cash flow in 2008 primarily resulted from increased operating income, offset by increased capital expenditures. The increase in free cash flow in 2007 primarily resulted from increased operating
income. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, and the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject
to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, valuation of cash equivalents and marketable securities, and fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities balances, which, at fair value, were $3.7 billion, $3.1 billion, and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $1.7 billion, $1.2 billion, and $623 million at December 31, 2008,
2007, and 2006, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Income Taxes.” Cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion, $1.4 billion, and $702 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006. Our operating cash flows result primarily
from cash received from our customers, from sellers, and from non-retail activities such as through our co-branded credit card agreements, other seller services, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, offset by cash payments we make
for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant to SOP 98-1 that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on
our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers, sellers, developers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle
quickly. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, cash
outlays for acquisitions, equity-method investments and intellectual property rights, 26 Table of Contents and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(1.2)
billion, $42 million, and $(333) million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments, and acquisition activity. Capital expenditures were $333
million, $224 million, and $216 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investments in technology infrastructure, fulfillment-related assets and the development of new features and product
offerings on our websites. Capital expenditures included $128 million, $108 million, and $108 million for internal-use software and website development during 2008, 2007 and 2006. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and
website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we made payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and investment activity of $494 million, $75 million, and $32 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(198) million, $50 million, and $(400) million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006. Cash outflows from
financing activities result from repurchases of common stock, repayments of long-term debt, and payments on capital lease obligations. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase
program authorized by our Board of Directors in February 2008. We repurchased 6.3 million shares of common stock for $248 million in 2007, and 8.2 million shares of common stock for $252 million in 2006, under the $500 million repurchase
program authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2006. Repayments on long-term debt and payments on capital lease obligations were $355 million, $74 million, and $383 million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006. Repayments on long-term debt include $294
million on our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes in 2008, and €250 million ($300 million) of our 6.875% PEACS in 2006. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term
Debt.” Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and exercises of employee stock options. SFAS No. 123(R), Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation , requires the reporting of tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions in financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $159 million, $257 million,
and $102 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006. Cash inflows from proceeds from exercise of employee stock options were $11 million, $91 million, and $35 million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006. We expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options will
decline over time as we continue issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. In 2008, 2007 and 2006 we
recorded net tax provisions of $247 million, $184 million, and $187 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being
utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid were $53 million, $24 million, and $15 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006. As our federal and state net operating losses and tax credits are utilized, cash paid for taxes will
increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In February 2008, our
Board of Directors authorized a debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem,
or otherwise retire up to all of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009 and 6.875% PEACS. In 2008, we called for redemption all of the remaining principal amount of $899 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes. Holders elected to convert $605 million in principal amount of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, and we issued 7.8 million shares of our common stock as a result. We redeemed the remaining $294 million of the called
principal amount for cash. At December 31, 2008, the debt balance of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was zero, and the debt balance of our 6.875% PEACS was $335 million. In August 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, pursuant to which we
repurchased $252 million and $248 million of our common stock in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In April 2007, our Board authorized a new 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, which was replaced in February 2008 by a
24-month program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. We repurchased $100 million of our common stock in 2008 under the February 2008 Board authorization. 27 Table of Contents Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are denominated in Euros, our U.S. Dollar equivalent
interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. As a result, any fluctuations in the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest expense and, to the extent we make principal payments, the
amount of U.S. Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS is due in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses on currency movements until the
date of the interest payment. Gains or losses on the remeasurement of our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified as “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was
12, 13, and 13 for 2008, 2007, and 2006. Inventory turnover has declined slightly over the last several years, primarily due to category expansion and changes in product mix, and our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, which enables
faster delivery of products to our customers. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock
inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments as of December 31, 2008: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total (in millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal (1) $ 59 $ 335 $ 41 $ 33 $ — $ — $ 468 Debt interest (1) 30 28 5 1 — — 64 Capital leases, including interest 86 77 44 7 4 1 219 Operating leases 146 127 105 93 84 261 816 Other commitments (2)(3) 96 143 88 84 76 1,005 1,492 Purchase obligations (4) 497 — — — — — 497 Total commitments $ 914 $ 710 $ 283 $ 218 $ 164 $ 1,267 $ 3,556 (1) At December 31, 2008, the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate was 1.3974. Due to changes in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation
under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $99 million as of December 31, 2008. The principal and interest commitments reflect the partial redemption of the 6.875% PEACS and full redemption of the 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes. (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately 1,360,000 square feet of corporate office
space being developed in Seattle, Washington with initial terms of up to 16 years commencing on completion of development in 2010 and 2011, and also includes a $10 million termination fee related to our right to occupy up to an additional
approximately 330,000 square feet. The amount of space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected by various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and
other expenses and our exercise of certain rights under the lease agreements. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Commitments.” (3) Excludes $166 million of tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if at all. See 

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Income Taxes.” (4) Consists primarily of inventory commitments. 28 Table of Contents Pledged Securities We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable
securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of pledged securities at December 31, 2008 consisted of $308 million included in “Other
assets.” The amount required to be pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases based on our credit rating and changes in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing
price of our common stock). Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby and Trade Letters of Credit and Guarantees Debt (1) Real Estate Leases (2) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 138 $ 60 $ 13 $ 211 Net change in collateral pledged — 100 (3 ) 97 Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 138 $ 160 $ 10 $ 308 (1) Represents collateral for certain debt related to our international operations. (2) At December 31, 2008, our market capitalization was $22.0 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $5 million if our market capitalization is
equal to or below $18.0 billion and by an additional $6 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $13.0 billion. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows
are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 14—Quarterly Results (Unaudited).” 29 Table of Contents Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Net Sales: North America $ 10,228 $ 8,095 $ 5,869 International 8,938 6,740 4,842 Consolidated $ 19,166 $ 14,835 $ 10,711 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America 26 % 38 % 25 % International 33 39 28 Consolidated 29 39 26 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect of exchange rates: North America 26 % 38 % 24 % International 31 31 28 Consolidated 28 35 26 Net Sales Mix: North America 53 % 55 % 55 % International 47 45 45 Consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % Revenue increased 29%, 39%, and 26% in 2008, 2007, and 2006, reflecting revenue growth in both our
North America and International segments. Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates positively affected net sales by $127 million, $399 million, and $24 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006. For a discussion of the effect on revenue growth of
exchange rates, see “Effect of Exchange Rates” below. The North America revenue growth rate was 26%, 38%, and 25% in 2008, 2007,
and 2006. The increase in revenue in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, a larger base of sales in
faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection of product offerings. The International revenue growth rate was 33%, 39%, and 28% in 2008, 2007, and 2006. The increase in revenue in each year reflects increased unit sales driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our
customers, including from our free shipping offers, a larger base of sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise, increased in-stock inventory availability, and increased selection of product offerings.
Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates positively affected International net sales by $131 million, $390 million, and $18 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006. We expect that, over time, our International segment will represent 50% or more of our consolidated net sales. Additionally, as we continue to offer increased selection, lower prices, and additional product lines
within our electronics and other general merchandise category, we expect to see the relative mix of sales from this category increase. See “Supplemental Information” below. 30 Table of Contents Gross profit information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Gross Profit: North America $ 2,495 $ 2,031 $ 1,525 International 1,775 1,322 931 Consolidated $ 4,270 $ 3,353 $ 2,456 Gross Profit Growth Rate: North America 23 % 33 % 20 % International 34 42 21 Consolidated 27 37 20 Gross Margin: North America 24.4 % 25.1 % 26.0 % International 19.9 19.6 19.2 Consolidated 22.3 22.6 22.9 The increase in gross profit in absolute terms during 2008, compared to 2007 and 2006, corresponds
with increases in sales, offset by lower prices for customers including from free shipping offers and Amazon Prime. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based on several factors, including our product, service, and geographic mix of sales; sales
volumes by other sellers; changes in vendor pricing, including the extent to which we receive discounts and allowances; lowering prices for customers, including from competitive pricing decisions; improvements in product sourcing and inventory
management; and the extent to which our customers accept our free shipping and Amazon Prime offers. Such free shipping and Amazon Prime offers reduce shipping revenue and reduce our gross margins on retail sales. We view our shipping offers as an
effective worldwide marketing tool and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Sales of products by marketplace sellers on our
websites represented 29%, 28%, and 28% of unit sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006. Since revenues from these sales are recorded as a net amount, they generally result in lower revenues but higher gross margin per unit. Since we focus on profit dollars
rather than margins, we are largely neutral on whether an item is sold by us or by another seller. Gross profit growth is also affected by
changes in exchange rates—see “Effect of Exchange Rates” below. North America segment gross margins in 2008 decreased by 69
basis points compared to 2007 resulting primarily from our efforts to continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and a larger percent of overall sales in lower margin categories such as
electronics and other general merchandise, partially offset by increases in other revenue and improvements in vendor pricing. North
America segment gross margins in 2007 decreased by 90 basis points compared to 2006 resulting primarily from our efforts to continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and a larger percent of
overall sales in lower margin categories such as electronics and other general merchandise. International segment gross margins in 2008
increased by 25 basis points compared to 2007 resulting primarily from increases in sales of products by other sellers and improvements in vendor pricing, partially offset by our efforts to continue reducing prices for our customers, including from
our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and a larger percent of overall sales in lower margin categories such as electronics and other general merchandise. 31 Table of Contents International segment gross margins in 2007 increased by 38 basis points compared to 2006 resulting
primarily from increases in sales of products by other sellers, offset partially by our efforts to continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and a larger percent of overall sales in lower
margin categories such as electronics and other general merchandise. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results is as follows: December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2) $ 835 $ 740 $ 567 Outbound shipping costs (1,465 ) (1,174 ) (884 ) Net shipping cost $ (630 ) $ (434 ) $ (317 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 13 % 31 % 11 % Outbound shipping costs 25 33 18 Net shipping cost 45 37 32 Percent of Net Sales: Shipping revenue 4.4 % 5.0 % 5.3 % Outbound shipping costs (7.6 ) (7.9 ) (8.3 ) Net shipping cost (3.2 )% (2.9 )% (3.0 )% (1) Excludes amounts earned on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes amounts earned from Amazon Prime membership and Fulfillment by Amazon programs. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental to our future success. One way we offer lower prices is through free-shipping offers that result in a net cost to us in delivering products, as well
as through membership in Amazon Prime. To the extent our customers accept and use our free shipping offers at an increasing rate, including memberships in Amazon Prime, our net cost of shipping will increase. We seek to partially mitigate the costs
of lowering prices over time through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. 32 Table of Contents Supplemental information about our net sales is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ 5,350 $ 4,630 $ 3,582 Electronics and other general merchandise 4,430 3,139 2,024 Other (1) 448 326 263 Total North America $ 10,228 $ 8,095 $ 5,869 International Media $ 5,734 $ 4,612 $ 3,485 Electronics and other general merchandise 3,110 2,071 1,337 Other (1) 94 57 20 Total International $ 8,938 $ 6,740 $ 4,842 Consolidated Media $ 11,084 $ 9,242 $ 7,067 Electronics and other general merchandise 7,540 5,210 3,361 Other (1) 542 383 283 Total consolidated $ 19,166 $ 14,835 $ 10,711 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 16 % 29 % 18 % Electronics and other general merchandise 41 55 40 Other 38 24 18 Total North America 26 38 25 International Media 24 % 32 % 21 % Electronics and other general merchandise 50 55 51 Other 65 186 151 Total International 33 39 28 Consolidated Media 20 % 31 % 19 % Electronics and other general merchandise 45 55 44 Other 42 35 23 Total consolidated 29 39 26 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect of exchange rates International Media 22 % 25 % 21 % Electronics and other general merchandise 49 45 49 Other 67 165 147 Total International 31 31 28 Consolidated Media 19 % 27 % 19 % Electronics and other general merchandise 44 51 43 Other 42 34 23 Total consolidated 28 35 26 Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media 58 % 62 % 66 % Electronics and other general merchandise 39 35 31 Other 3 3 3 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Includes non-retail activities, such as other seller sites, our co-branded credit card agreements, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities. 33 Table of Contents Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in
millions): Year ended December 31, 2008 Year ended December 31, 2007 Year ended December 31, 2006 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Fulfillment $ 1,658 $ (61 ) $ 1,597 $ 1,292 $ (39 ) $ 1,253 $ 937 $ (24 ) $ 913 Marketing 482 (13 ) 469 344 (8 ) 336 263 (4 ) 259 Technology and content 1,033 (151 ) 882 818 (103 ) 715 662 (54 ) 608 General and administrative 279 (50 ) 229 235 (35 ) 200 195 (19 ) 176 Other operating expense (income), net (24 ) — (24 ) 9 — 9 10 — 10 Total operating expenses $ 3,428 $ (275 ) $ 3,153 $ 2,698 $ (185 ) $ 2,513 $ 2,067 $ (101 ) $ 1,966 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 28 % 27 % 38 % 37 % 26 % 25 % Marketing 40 39 31 30 32 34 Technology and content 26 23 23 17 47 50 General and administrative 19 15 20 13 18 21 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 8.6 % 8.3 % 8.7 % 8.4 % 8.7 % 8.5 % Marketing 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.5 2.4 Technology and content 5.4 4.6 5.5 4.8 6.2 5.7 General and administrative 1.5 1.2 1.6 1.3 1.8 1.6 Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See
“Non-GAAP Financial Measures” and 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Fulfillment The increase in
fulfillment costs in absolute dollars during 2008 in comparison with the prior years relates to variable costs corresponding with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix of product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs,
including mix of payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain seller transactions, our level of productivity and
accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our
operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and
related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of revenue versus our retail sales, our sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. We expanded our fulfillment capacity in 2008, 2007, and 2006 through gains in efficiencies and increases in leased warehouse space. This expansion was designed to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory
levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide fulfillment services. We periodically evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. 34 Table of Contents Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Our
marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a
corresponding change in our marketing expense or its effect. Marketing costs increased in absolute dollars in 2008 compared to 2007 and
2006, due to increased spending in variable online marketing channels, such as our Associates program and sponsored search programs. While
costs associated with free shipping are not included in marketing expense, we view free shipping offers and Amazon Prime as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We
seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content including seller platforms, web services, digital initiatives, and expansion of new and existing product categories, as well as technology infrastructure so that we can continue
to enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiency and support our infrastructure web services. See “Overview” above for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. We
expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees to our staff and add technology infrastructure. For the years ended 2008, 2007, and 2006, we capitalized $187 million, $129 million, and $123 million of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $143 million,
$116 million, and $86 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006. A significant majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and most
of them are allocated to our North America segment. General and Administrative The increase in spending in general and administrative in 2008 compared to 2007 and 2006 is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses,
and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation SFAS No. 123(R) requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation
over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over
the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such
amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results and future
estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. Stock-based compensation was $275 million, $185 million, and $101 million
during 2008, 2007, and 2006. The increase in stock-based compensation is primarily attributable to an increase in total stock compensation value granted to our employees. 35 Table of Contents Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, was $(24) million, $9 million and $10 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006. The increase in other operating income in
2008 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily attributable to the $53 million non-cash gain recognized on the sale of our European DVD rental assets, partially offset by increased amortization of intangible assets. Other operating
expense in 2007 and 2006 was primarily attributable to amortization of intangible assets. Income from Operations Income from operations was $842 million, $655 million, and $389 million during 2008, 2007, and 2006. The increase in each year is primarily a result of
increased revenue and gross profit relative to operating expenses. Additionally, 2008 includes the $53 million non-cash gain on the sale of our European DVD rental assets included in “Other operating expense (income), net.” Interest Expense and Income The primary component of our net interest expense is the interest we incur on our long-term debt instruments, including our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, which were no longer outstanding at December 31, 2008, and our 6.875%
PEACS, which had a principal balance of €240 million ($335 million based on the exchange rate) at December 31, 2008. Interest expense was $71 million, $77 million, and $78 million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006 with the decline primarily
relating to principal reductions of $899 million in 2008 and $300 million in 2006. Our total debt was $468 million and $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt.” Our interest income was $83 million, $90 million, and $59 million during 2008, 2007, and 2006. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated
money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS (1) $ 15 $ (33 ) $ (37 ) Foreign-currency gain on intercompany balances (2) 23 32 50 Other 9 (7 ) (6 ) Other income (expense), net $ 47 $ (8 ) $ 7 (1) Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated
statements of operations. (2) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement of intercompany balances due to changes in foreign exchange rates. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Foreign Currency.” 36 Table of Contents Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $247 million, $184 million, and $187 million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006. The effective tax rate in 2008 and 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily
due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. The effective tax rate in 2006 was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate resulting from establishment of our
European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expected to benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to
international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including from accurately predicting our taxable income, the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates, business acquisitions and investments, and foreign
currencies. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, we expect a majority of our net tax provision to be
non-cash. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2006 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 19,039 $ 127 $ 19,166 $ 14,436 $ 399 $ 14,835 $ 10,687 $ 24 $ 10,711 Gross profit 4,240 30 4,270 3,274 79 3,353 2,455 1 2,456 Operating expenses 3,408 20 3,428 2,648 50 2,698 2,064 3 2,067 Income from operations 832 10 842 626 29 655 391 (2 ) 389 Net interest income (expense) and other (3) 17 42 59 5 — 5 (19 ) 7 (12 ) Net income 609 36 645 456 20 476 188 2 190 Diluted earnings per share $ 1.41 $ 0.08 $ 1.49 $ 1.07 $ 0.05 $ 1.12 $ 0.44 $ 0.01 $ 0.45 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results,
and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating results, and
if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. (3) Includes foreign currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments, remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of “Free cash flow” meets the
definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash
flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to review our
financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. 37 Table of Contents Free cash flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by operating activities,” is cash flow
from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash
flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases,
free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example,
free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash
flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by operating
activities” for 2008, 2007, and 2006 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,697 $ 1,405 $ 702 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (333 ) (224 ) (216 ) Free cash flow $ 1,364 $ 1,181 $ 486 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (1,199 ) $ 42 $ (333 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (198 ) $ 50 $ (400 ) In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide
this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding
stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent
with our segment presentation in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based
compensation have limitations due to the fact that they do not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary
expense included in the “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. We compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental
information about outstanding stock-based awards in the footnotes to our financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of our compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as
appropriate in results of operations. Guidance The Company provided guidance on January 29, 2009 in its earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter
2009 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $4.525 billion and $4.925 billion, or to grow between 9% and 19% compared with first quarter 2008. 38 Table of Contents • Operating income is expected to be between $125 million and $210 million, or between 37% decline and 6% growth compared with first quarter 2008. This guidance
includes approximately $75 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions or investments are concluded and that there are no further revisions
to stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio
and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in
investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal
if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information
about our current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2008 (in millions, except percentages): 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2008 Money market funds $ 1,682 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,682 $ 1,682 Weighted average interest rate 0.78 % — — — — — 0.78 % Corporate debt securities 17 44 103 19 11 — 194 194 Weighted average interest rate 5.35 % 5.06 % 4.93 % 5.23 % 5.42 % — 5.06 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 463 47 58 11 7 — 586 594 Weighted average interest rate 0.36 % 2.09 % 2.29 % 3.61 % 3.80 % — 0.79 % Asset backed securities 10 28 20 5 — — 63 58 Weighted average interest rate 8.24 % 9.32 % 8.22 % 6.32 % — — 8.58 % Foreign government and agency securities 915 42 39 62 63 — 1,121 1,128 Weighted average interest rate 1.41 % 3.58 % 4.02 % 3.71 % 3.75 % — 1.84 % Other securities 2 10 — 9 — — 21 23 Weighted average interest rate 3.17 % 1.25 % — 2.30 % — — 1.87 % $ 3,089 $ 171 $ 220 $ 106 $ 81 $ — $ 3,667 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 3,679 39 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable
fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2007 (in millions, except percentages): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2007 Money market funds $ 1,558 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,558 $ 1,558 Weighted average interest rate 4.38 % — — — — — 4.38 % Corporate debt securities 7 17 29 53 21 — 127 128 Weighted average interest rate 5.09 % 4.64 % 4.77 % 4.58 % 4.86 % — 4.71 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 122 57 56 40 50 — 325 331 Weighted average interest rate 4.26 % 3.27 % 3.66 % 3.73 % 3.49 % — 3.80 % Asset backed securities 11 35 30 28 1 1 106 106 Weighted average interest rate 5.15 % 4.78 % 4.74 % 4.99 % 4.62 % 4.65 % 4.86 % Foreign government and agency securities 274 31 18 26 9 — 358 357 Weighted average interest rate 4.28 % 3.49 % 3.71 % 3.89 % 3.83 % — 4.15 % Other securities — 4 — — — — 4 4 Weighted average interest rate — 4.53 % — — — — 4.53 % $ 1,972 $ 144 $ 133 $ 147 $ 81 $ 1 $ 2,478 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 2,484 At December 31, 2008, we had debt of $468 million primarily associated with our 6.875% PEACS,
which is due in 2010. The fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. There was no amount of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding at December 31, 2008. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of
the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007 (outstanding principal of $899 million). The fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was $332 million at December 31, 2008, and $358 million at December 31, 2007
(outstanding principal of €240 million). Foreign Exchange Risk During 2008, net sales from our International segment accounted for 47% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our
international websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and
Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our
internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or
losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2008, International segment revenues increased $131 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the
balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2008 of $1.7 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $85 million, 40 Table of Contents $170 million, and $335 million. All investments are classified as “available for sale,” as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities . Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in foreign currency. Based on the net intercompany balances at
December 31, 2008 of $150 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to these foreign currencies would result in losses of $5 million, $15 million, and $30 million, recorded to “Other income
(expense), net.” We have foreign exchange risk related to our 6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance at
December 31, 2008 of €240 million ($335 million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2008). Due to fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, which we cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation
under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $99 million as of December 31, 2008. Based on the outstanding 6.875% PEACS principal balance, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to
the Euro would result in additional losses of approximately $17 million, $35 million, and $65 million, recorded to “Other expense (income), net.” Additionally, we have not hedged our interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS to protect
against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 20%, we would incur $1 million, $2 million, and $5 million additional annual interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates. See “Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of
December 31, 2008, our recorded basis in equity investments was $90 million. These investments primarily relate to equity-method investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate
that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available
data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not
practicable. 41 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 43 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 44 Consolidated Statements of Operations 45 Consolidated Balance Sheets 46 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 47 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 48 42 Table of Contents Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at


  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Income Taxes.” Pledged Securities We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of
credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of pledged
securities at December 31, 2008 consisted of $308 million included in “Other assets.” The amount required to be pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases based on our credit rating and
changes in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock). Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby and Trade Letters of Credit and Guarantees Debt (1) Real Estate Leases (2) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 138 $ 60 $ 13 $ 211 Net change in collateral pledged — 100 (3 ) 97 Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 138 $ 160 $ 10 $ 308 (1) Represents collateral for certain debt related to our international operations. (2) At December 31, 2007, our market capitalization was $22.0 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $5 million if our market capitalization is
equal to or below $18.0 billion and by an additional $6 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $13.0 billion. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In June 2001, Audible, Inc., our subsidiary acquired in March 2008, was named as a defendant in a securities class-action filed in United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to its initial public offering in July 1999. The lawsuit also named certain of the offering’s underwriters, as well as Audible’s officers and directors as defendants.
Approximately 300 other issuers and their underwriters have had similar suits filed against them, all of which are included in a single coordinated proceeding in the Southern District of New York. The complaints allege that the prospectus and
the registration statement for Audible’s offering failed to disclose that the underwriters allegedly solicited and received “excessive” commissions from investors and that some investors allegedly agreed with the underwriters to buy
additional shares in the aftermarket in order to inflate the price of the Company’s stock. Audible and its officers and directors were named in the suits pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and other related provisions. The complaints seek unspecified damages, attorney and expert fees, 65 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) and other unspecified litigation costs. The Court has directed that the litigation proceed with a number of “focus cases” rather than all of the
consolidated cases at once. Audible’s case is not one of these focus cases. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in the complaint against Audible and its officers and directors and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant,
Beeler, Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to
collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys’
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In May 2004, Toysrus.com LLC filed a complaint
against us for breach of contract in the Superior Court of New Jersey. The complaint alleged that we breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus.com LLC by selling, and by permitting other third parties to sell, products that Toysrus.com LLC
alleged it has an exclusive right to sell on our website. We disputed the allegations in the complaint and brought counterclaims alleging breach of contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial of both parties’ claims concluded
in November 2005. In March 2006, the Court entered a judgment in favor of Toysrus.com LLC, terminating the contract but declining to award damages to either party. We are pursuing an appeal of the lower court’s rulings terminating the contract,
declining to award us damages, and denying our motion to compel Toysrus.com to pay certain fees incurred during the wind-down period. In
December 2005, Registrar Systems LLC filed a complaint against us and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the
method by which Amazon.com enables customers to use Amazon.com account information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and
apparatuses for a “World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment
interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2006, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of
the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patents in suit. In August 2006, Cordance Corporation filed a complaint
against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained by Cordance purporting to
cover an “Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure” (U.S. Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement,
prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In response, we asserted a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent owned by us entitled
“Networked Personal Contact Manager” (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369). We dispute Cordance’s allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. 66 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) In October 2007, Digital Reg of Texas, LLC filed a complaint against our subsidiary, Audible, Inc.,
and several other defendants in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that Audible’s digital rights management technology infringes a patent obtained by Digital Reg purporting to cover a
system for “Regulating Access to Digital Content” (U.S. Patent No. 6,389,541) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and
attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in the matter. In December 2008,
Quito Enterprises, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes a patent obtained by Quito purporting
to cover a “Personal Feedback Browser for Obtaining Media Files” (U.S. Patent No. 5,890,152) and seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this
matter. In January 2009, we learned that the United States Postal Service, including the Postal Service Office of Inspector General, is
investigating our compliance with Postal Service rules, and we are cooperating. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable
resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. See also “Note 12—Income Taxes.” Inventory Suppliers During 2008, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors
to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Note 8—STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We
have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Stock Conversion Activity Holders of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes elected to convert a total of $605 million in
outstanding principal amount under called redemptions during 2008, and we issued 7.8 million shares of common stock as a result of such elections. Stock Repurchase Activity We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in
2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in February 2008. We repurchased 6.3 million shares of common stock for $248 million in 2007, and 8.2 million shares of common stock for $252 million in
2006, under the $500 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2006. 67 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Outstanding
stock options generally have a term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock options outstanding have a weighted average exercise life of 3 years, with a weighted average exercise price of $25.44. Stock Award Activity We granted
stock awards, which consist primarily of restricted stock units, representing 7.3 million, 7.6 million, 9.1 million shares of common stock during 2008, 2007, and 2006 with a per share weighted average fair value of $72.21, $47.04, and
$36.48. Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Restricted stock units 16.7 16.3 Stock options 1.2 1.9 Total outstanding stock awards 17.9 18.2 Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding
stock options and restricted stock units totaled 446 million, 435 million, and 436 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures,
consisting of vested and unvested awards and in-the-money and out-of-the-money stock options. Common shares outstanding increased in 2008 due to vesting of restricted stock units, exercises of stock options, and matching contributions under our
401(k) savings plan, offset by repurchases of our common stock. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Outstanding at January 1, 2006 9.9 Units granted 9.1 Units vested (1.7 ) Units cancelled (2.8 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2006 14.5 Units granted 7.6 Units vested (3.3 ) Units cancelled (2.5 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2007 16.3 Units granted 7.3 Units vested (5.5 ) Units cancelled (1.4 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2008 16.7 68 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2008 is as follows (in
millions): Year Ended December 31, Thereafter Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 6.0 5.3 2.9 1.6 0.6 0.3 16.7 As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of
common stock in both 2008 and 2007. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. As of December 31, 2008, there was $357 million of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting
in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average recognition period of 1.3 years. During 2008 and 2007, the fair value of restricted stock units vested was $362 million and $224 million. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2008, common stock available for future issuance is as
follows (in millions): December 31, 2008 Stock awards 138.5 Shares issuable upon conversion of 6.875% PEACS 2.8 Total common stock reserved for future issuance 141.3 Note 9—OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The changes in the components of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Net income $ 645 $ 476 $ 190 Net change in unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities (1 ) 8 4 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax (127 ) (3 ) (13 ) Amortization of net unrealized losses on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax — 1 2 Other comprehensive income (loss) (128 ) 6 (7 ) Comprehensive income $ 517 $ 482 $ 183 69 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows: December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Net unrealized losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax $ (128 ) $ (1 ) Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 6 7 Net unrealized losses on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax (1 ) (1 ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (123 ) $ 5 Note 10—OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE (INCOME), NET Other operating expense (income), net, was $(24) million, $9 million and $10 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006. The increase in other operating income in
2008 compared to the comparable prior years is primarily attributable to the $53 million non-cash gain recognized on the sale in 2008 of our European DVD rental assets, partially offset by increased amortization of intangible assets. Other operating
expense in 2007 and 2006 was primarily attributable to amortization of intangible assets. Note 11—OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net, was $47 million, $(8) million, and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, and consisted primarily of gains and losses on sales of
marketable securities, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign currency transaction gains
and losses primarily relate to remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS and remeasurement of intercompany balances. Note 12—INCOME TAXES In 2008, 2007 and 2006 we recorded net tax provisions of $247 million, $184 million, and $187 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We
have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid were $53 million, $24 million, and $15 million for 2008, 2007, and
2006. The components of the provision for income taxes, net were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Current taxes: U.S. and state $ 227 $ 275 $ 162 International 25 8 3 Current taxes 252 283 165 Deferred taxes (5 ) (99 ) 22 Provision for income taxes, net $ 247 $ 184 $ 187 70 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) U.S. $ 436 $ 360 $ 396 International (1) 465 300 (19 ) Income before income taxes $ 901 $ 660 $ 377 (1) Included in 2008 is the impact of the $53 million non-cash gain associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain will be taxed at rates substantially below the
35% U.S. federal statutory rate. The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory
rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Effect of: Impact of international operations and restructuring (13.8 ) (11.7 ) 15.9 State taxes, net of federal benefits 2.8 2.1 1.6 Tax credits (2.2 ) (1.1 ) (2.8 ) Nondeductible stock-based compensation 1.7 1.4 1.4 Valuation allowance 2.6 (1.2 ) (2.6 ) Other, net 1.3 3.4 1.1 Total 27.4 % 27.9 % 49.6 % The effective tax rate in 2008 and 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate
primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. The effective tax rate in 2006 was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate resulting from establishment
of our European headquarters in Luxembourg. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable
income and exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions. 71 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows: December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses—stock-based compensation (1) $ 120 $ 120 Net operating losses—other 31 28 Net operating losses—obtained through acquisitions (2) 14 — Assets held for investment 152 167 Revenue items 53 58 Expense items, including stock-based compensation 253 210 Net tax credits (3) 2 2 Deferred tax assets under FIN 48 28 22 Total gross deferred tax assets 653 607 Less valuation allowance (4) (199 ) (195 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 454 412 Deferred tax liabilities: Basis difference in intangible assets (80 ) — Expense items (13 ) (24 ) Deferred tax liabilities under FIN 48 (12 ) (3 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities $ 349 $ 385 (1) Presented net of fully reserved net operating loss carryforward deferred tax assets of $80 million and $219 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007. The total gross deferred tax
assets relating to our excess stock-based compensation net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $200 million and $339 million (relating to approximately $797 million and $1.1 billion of our net operating loss
carryforwards). We have not fully utilized our net operating loss carryforwards generated in the years 2001 and 2003, so that the statute of limitations for these years remains open for purposes of adjusting the amounts of the losses carried forward
from those years. The majority of our net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2021 and thereafter. (2) The utilization of some of these net operating loss carryforwards is subject to an annual limitation under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. (3) Presented net of fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with tax credits of $125 million and $95 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Total tax credits available to be
claimed in future years are approximately $167 million and $129 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. (4) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of future capital gains and net income in certain taxing jurisdictions. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary
course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will
be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as
the outcome of tax audit. The provision for income taxes 72 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for in
accordance with the requirements of FIN 48. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): Gross tax contingencies—January 1, 2008 $ 112 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 39 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (4 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 22 Audit settlements paid during 2008 (3 ) Gross tax contingencies—December 31, 2008 (1) $ 166 (1) As of December 31, 2008, we had $166 million of tax contingencies of which $165 million, if fully recognized, would affect our effective tax rate and increase additional
paid-in capital by $1 million to reflect the tax benefits of excess stock-based compensation deductions. The increase to
current period tax positions results primarily from acquisition-related activity and new regulations we implemented during Q4 2008, and we do not expect such tax positions to increase significantly in the future. Due to the nature of our business
operations we expect the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for prior period tax positions will grow in comparable amounts to our current year increase. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized
tax benefits will significantly decrease within the next 12 months. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to our tax
contingencies in income tax expense. As of December 31, 2008, we had accrued interest and penalties related to tax contingencies of $14 million, net of related income tax benefits, on our balance sheet. Interest and penalties recognized for the
year ended December 31, 2008 was $5 million, net of related income tax benefits. We are under examination, or may be subject to
examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for calendar years 2005 through 2008. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in these years may also be subject to examination by the IRS.
We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, in the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2004 through 2008, France for 2005 through 2008, Germany for 2003 through 2008, Luxembourg for 2003 through 2008,
and the United Kingdom for 2003 through 2008. In addition, in 2007, Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $119 million against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005.
We believe that these claims are without merit and are disputing the assessment. Further proceedings on the assessment will be stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raises,
and we have provided bank guarantees to suspend enforcement of the assessment. We also may be subject to income tax examination by Japanese tax authorities for 2006 through 2008. Note 13—SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North
America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and
“General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines 73 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) attributable to stock-based compensation. Additionally, we do not allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), net” to our segment
operating results. A significant majority of our costs for “Technology and content” are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between
our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca. This segment includes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions
through internationally focused websites such as www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , www.amazon.co.jp , www.amazon.fr , and www.amazon.cn . This segment includes export sales from these internationally based sites
(including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) North America Net sales $ 10,228 $ 8,095 $ 5,869 Cost of sales 7,733 6,064 4,344 Gross profit 2,495 2,031 1,525 Direct segment operating expenses 2,050 1,631 1,295 Segment operating income $ 445 $ 400 $ 230 International Net sales $ 8,938 $ 6,740 $ 4,842 Cost of sales 7,163 5,418 3,911 Gross profit 1,775 1,322 931 Direct segment operating expenses 1,127 873 661 Segment operating income $ 648 $ 449 $ 270 Consolidated Net sales $ 19,166 $ 14,835 $ 10,711 Cost of sales 14,896 11,482 8,255 Gross profit 4,270 3,353 2,456 Direct segment operating expenses 3,177 2,504 1,956 Segment operating income 1,093 849 500 Stock-based compensation (275 ) (185 ) (101 ) Other operating income (expense), net 24 (9 ) (10 ) Income from operations 842 655 389 Total non-operating income (expense), net 59 5 (12 ) Provision for income taxes (247 ) (184 ) (187 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (9 ) — — Net income $ 645 $ 476 $ 190 74 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Net sales shipped to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately half of net sales for
2008, 2007, and 2006. Net sales from www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , and www.amazon.co.jp each represented 10% or more of consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Total assets, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2008 2007 North America $ 5,266 $ 4,227 International 3,048 2,258 Consolidated $ 8,314 $ 6,485 Fixed assets, net, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2008 2007 North America $ 666 $ 404 International 188 139 Consolidated $ 854 $ 543 Depreciation expense, by segment, was as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 North America $ 262 $ 212 $ 166 International 49 46 34 Consolidated $ 311 $ 258 $ 200 75 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Note 14—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2008 and 2007. The following information reflects
all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by
seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. Unaudited
quarterly results were as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2008 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales (2) $ 6,704 $ 4,264 $ 4,063 $ 4,135 Gross profit 1,348 999 967 956 Income before income taxes 302 182 208 207 Provision for income taxes 79 59 46 62 Net income 225 118 158 143 Basic earnings per share $ 0.52 $ 0.28 $ 0.38 $ 0.34 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.52 $ 0.27 $ 0.37 $ 0.34 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 428 427 420 417 Diluted 436 436 430 426 Year Ended December 31, 2007 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 5,673 $ 3,262 $ 2,886 $ 3,015 Gross profit 1,170 762 701 719 Income before income taxes 281 124 111 144 Provision for income taxes 74 44 33 33 Net income 207 80 78 111 Basic earnings per share $ 0.50 $ 0.19 $ 0.19 $ 0.27 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.48 $ 0.19 $ 0.19 $ 0.26 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 416 414 412 412 Diluted 427 425 423 420 (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes in the number
of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. (2) Our year-over-year revenue growth was 39% in 2007 and 36% for the first three quarters of 2008. For Q4 2008, our quarterly revenue growth rates declined to 18%, driven primarily by
decreased consumer demand following disruptions in the global financial markets and changes in foreign exchange rates (excluding the $320 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the fourth quarter,
net sales would have grown 24% compared with Q4 2007). 76 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations 19   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 33  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to
enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product
pricing and free shipping offers, including Amazon Prime, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely
customer service. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment
centers and warehouses that we operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See
  

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and
Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities None. 17 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ 24,509 $ 19,166 $ 14,835 $ 10,711 $ 8,490 Income from operations 1,129 842 655 389 432 Income before change in accounting principle 902 645 476 190 333 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — — 26 Net income 902 645 476 190 359 Basic earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 2.08 $ 1.52 $ 1.15 $ 0.46 $ 0.81 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — — 0.06 Basic earnings per share (1) $ 2.08 $ 1.52 $ 1.15 $ 0.46 $ 0.87 Diluted earnings per share (1): Prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 2.04 $ 1.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.45 $ 0.78 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — — — 0.06 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 2.04 $ 1.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.45 $ 0.84 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 433 423 413 416 412 Diluted 442 432 424 424 426 Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,293 $ 1,697 $ 1,405 $ 702 $ 733 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (373 ) (333 ) (224 ) (216 ) (204 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 2,920 $ 1,364 $ 1,181 $ 486 $ 529 December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ 13,813 $ 8,314 $ 6,485 $ 4,363 $ 3,696 Long-term debt 109 409 1,282 1,247 1,480 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use
software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 18 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use
words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results
could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the
amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes,
competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree
to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate
amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States
(“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its
most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also
have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may
differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”)
method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to
product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. These assumptions about
future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at December 31, 2009 we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $23
million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We
test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as
the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and
operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment penetration and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and
developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitors the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, we did not identify any triggering events which
would require an update to our annual impairment test. A 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2009 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. 21 Table of Contents Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through
our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether
credit or stock price changes are a short term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2009 closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize the expense as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units
is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or
updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee
class, current economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have an approximately $13 million impact on our 2009 consolidated operating income.
Our estimated forfeiture rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were 33.1% and 37.1%. We utilize the accelerated method,
rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the compensation cost is expensed in the first year of a four year vesting term. The accelerated method also adds a higher level of
sensitivity and complexity in estimating forfeitures. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business,
there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory
rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and
interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related
litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that
determination is made. If we determine that additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable, the majority of
the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements, but was claimed on the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated
statements of operations, the benefit generated will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. Recent Accounting
Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description
of Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 22 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,293 $ 1,697 $ 1,405 Investing activities (2,337 ) (1,199 ) 42 Financing activities (280 ) (198 ) 50 Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash
flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $2.92 billion for 2009, compared to $1.36 billion and $1.18 billion for 2008 and 2007. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to
cash provided by operating activities. The increase in free cash flow in 2009 primarily resulted from changes in working capital, increased operating income, and increased deferred revenue. The increase in free cash flow in 2008 primarily resulted
from increased operating income, offset by increased capital expenditures. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows; accordingly, as such tax benefits
decline, a greater amount of cash is classified as operating cash inflow. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital and the timing and magnitude of capital
expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, valuation of cash
equivalents and marketable securities, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are
cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $6.4 billion, $3.7 billion, and $3.1 billion, at December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. Amounts held in foreign
currencies were $2.8 billion, $1.7 billion, and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.3 billion, $1.7 billion, and $1.4 billion in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers, from
sellers, and from non-retail activities such as marketing and promotional agreements, Amazon Web Services, other seller services, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee
compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term debt
obligations. Cash received from customers, sellers, developers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly. Changes to
our operating cash flows have historically been driven primarily by changes in operating income and changes to the components of working capital, including changes to receivable and payable days and inventory turns, as well as changes to non-cash
items such as excess stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds
with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, cash outlays for acquisitions, equity-method investments and intellectual property rights, and purchases of fixed assets, including leasehold improvements and internal-use software and
website development costs. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(2.3) billion, $(1.2) billion, and $42 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007, with the variability caused primarily by purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable
securities and other investments, partially offset by decreases in cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $373 million, $333 million, and $224 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting
additional investments in technology infrastructure, fulfillment-related assets and the development of new features and product offerings on our websites. In 2010 we plan to significantly increase 23 Table of Contents our capital expenditures for additional investments in corporate office space and in support of continued business growth, including capacity to support our fulfillment operations and Amazon Web
Services. Capital expenditures included $146 million, $128 million, and $108 million for internal-use software and website development during 2009, 2008, and 2007. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website
development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, we made payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and investment activity of $40 million, $494 million, and $75 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(280) million, $(198) million, and $50 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Cash outflows
from financing activities result from repayments of long-term debt, payments on capital lease obligations, and repurchases of common stock. Repayments on long-term debt and payments on capital lease obligations were $472 million, $355 million, and
$74 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Repayments on long-term debt include $319 million on our 6.875% Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities (“PEACS”) in 2009, and $294 million on our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes in 2008. See


  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt.” We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized
by our Board of Directors in February 2008. We repurchased 6.3 million shares of common stock for $248 million in 2007 under the $500 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2006. Cash inflows from financing
activities primarily result from proceeds from tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows (outflows)
from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $105 million, $159 million, and $257 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007. In 2009, 2008, and 2007 we recorded net tax provisions of $253 million, $247 million, and $184 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses
relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $48 million, $53 million, and $24 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. As our federal and
state net operating losses and tax credits are utilized, cash paid for taxes will increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In August 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, pursuant to which
we repurchased $252 million and $248 million of our common stock in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In April 2007, our Board authorized a new 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, which was replaced in February 2008 by
a 24-month program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. We repurchased $100 million of our common stock in 2008 under the February 2008 Board authorization. We did not repurchase any of our common stock in 2009. In January 2010, our
Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock which replaces the Board’s prior authorization. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments,
as well as our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory
turnover was 12, 12, and 13 for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Inventory turnover has declined slightly over the last several years, primarily due to category expansion and changes in product mix, and our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability,
which enables faster delivery of products to our customers. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus
on in-stock inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. 24 Table of Contents We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be
sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Fulfillment The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars during 2009 in comparison with the prior years relates to variable costs corresponding
with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix of product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs, including mix of payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment
capacity. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and
related transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain seller transactions, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services
provided by third parties, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated
with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of revenue versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher
fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and
in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We periodically evaluate our facility requirements. 29 Table of Contents Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program,
sponsored search, portal advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the
extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense or its effect. Marketing costs increased in absolute dollars in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007, due to increased spending in variable online marketing channels, such as our Associates program and sponsored search programs. While costs associated with free shipping are not included in marketing expense, we view free shipping offers and Amazon Prime as effective
worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content including seller platforms, web services,
digital initiatives, and expansion of new and existing product categories, as well as technology infrastructure so that we can continue to enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiency and support our infrastructure web services.
See “Overview” for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees to our staff and add
technology infrastructure. For the years ended 2009, 2008, and 2007, we capitalized $187 million, $187 million, and $129
million of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $172 million, $143 million, and $116 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. A significant majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and most of them are allocated to our North America segment. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $341 million, $275 million, and $185 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007. The increase in stock-based compensation in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily attributable to a
decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. The increase in stock-based compensation in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily attributable to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, was $102 million, $(24) million and $9 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007. The increase in other operating expense in 2009 is primarily attributable to the $51
million Toysrus.com LLC settlement, and increased amortization expense on acquired intangibles. In 2008, we recognized a $53 million noncash gain on the sale of our European DVD rental assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $37 million, $83 million, and $90 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities
and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. 30 Table of Contents The primary component of our net interest expense is the interest we incur on our long-term
debt instruments. Interest expense was $34 million, $71 million, and $77 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007 with the decline primarily relating to principal reductions of $319 million in 2009 and $899 million in 2008. Our long-term debt was $109 million and $409 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt.” Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Foreign-currency gain on intercompany balances $ 5 $ 23 $ 32 Foreign-currency gain (loss) on remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS 16 15 (33 ) Other 8 9 (7 ) Other income (expense), net $ 29 $ 47 $ (8 ) Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $253 million, $247 million, and $184 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007. The effective tax rate in
2009, 2008 and 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including our accuracy in predicting our taxable income,
the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates, business acquisitions and investments, and foreign currencies. We have current tax benefits, net operating losses, and tax credits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being
utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, we expect a majority of our net tax provision to be non-cash. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in
exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2007 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 24,691 $ (182 ) $ 24,509 $ 19,039 $ 127 $ 19,166 $ 14,436 $ 399 $ 14,835 Gross profit 5,605 (74 ) 5,531 4,240 30 4,270 3,274 79 3,353 Operating expenses 4,435 (33 ) 4,402 3,408 20 3,428 2,648 50 2,698 Income from operations 1,170 (41 ) 1,129 832 10 842 626 29 655 Net interest income (expense) and other (3) 6 26 32 17 42 59 5 — 5 Net income 911 (9 ) 902 609 36 645 456 20 476 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.06 $ (0.02 ) $ 2.04 $ 1.41 $ 0.08 $ 1.49 $ 1.07 $ 0.05 $ 1.12 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for
operating results, and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our intercompany balances and 6.875% PEACS, which we redeemed in 2009. 31 Table of Contents (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating
results, and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our intercompany balances and 6.875% PEACS, which we redeemed in 2009. (3) Includes foreign currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments, and remeasurement of our intercompany balances and 6.875% PEACS, which we redeemed in 2009. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use
of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of “Free cash flow” meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and
free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow, which we reconcile to
“Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it,
to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing
operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for
discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our
entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP
measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities” for 2009, 2008, and 2007 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,293 $ 1,697 $ 1,405 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (373 ) (333 ) (224 ) Free cash flow $ 2,920 $ 1,364 $ 1,181 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (2,337 ) $ (1,199 ) $ 42 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (280 ) $ (198 ) $ 50 In addition, we provide information regarding our operating expenses with and without stock-based
compensation. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our
shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from
operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation have limitations due to the fact that they do not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the
form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. 32 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on January 28, 2010 in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter 2010 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $6.45 billion and $7.00 billion, or to grow between 32% and 43% compared with first quarter 2009. • Operating income is expected to be between $275 million and $365 million, or to grow between 13% and 50% compared with first quarter 2009. This
guidance includes approximately $110 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions or investments are concluded and that there are no further
revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. As noted in 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements,” we are prospectively adopting Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2009-13 as of January 1, 2010. The impact of the
adoption of this standard is included in our first quarter 2010 guidance. These projections are subject to substantial
uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our
investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. All of our cash equivalent and
marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed
income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates. 33 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalent and
marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2009 (in millions, except percentages): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2009 Money market funds $ 2,750 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 2,750 $ 2,750 Weighted average interest rate 0.09 % — — — — — 0.09 % Corporate debt securities 45 109 42 6 — — 202 211 Weighted average interest rate 1.39 % 1.87 % 2.57 % 2.98 % — — 1.94 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 551 213 453 14 9 — 1,240 1,268 Weighted average interest rate 0.24 % 1.57 % 1.83 % 3.27 % 3.12 % — 1.10 % Asset backed securities 11 21 12 — — — 44 46 Weighted average interest rate 1.84 % 3.81 % 3.54 % — — — 3.25 % Foreign government and agency securities 1,549 102 287 36 8 — 1,982 1,999 Weighted average interest rate 0.40 % 1.13 % 1.54 % 1.98 % 2.45 % — 0.64 % Other securities — 6 — — — — 6 6 Weighted average interest rate — 1.69 % — — — — 1.69 % $ 4,906 $ 451 $ 794 $ 56 $ 17 $ — $ 6,224 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 6,280 The following table provides information about our
current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2008 (in millions, except percentages): 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2008 Money market funds $ 1,682 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,682 $ 1,682 Weighted average interest rate 0.78 % — — — — — 0.78 % Corporate debt securities 17 44 103 19 11 — 194 194 Weighted average interest rate 5.35 % 5.06 % 4.93 % 5.23 % 5.42 % — 5.06 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 463 47 58 11 7 — 586 594 Weighted average interest rate 0.36 % 2.09 % 2.29 % 3.61 % 3.80 % — 0.79 % Asset backed securities 10 28 20 5 — — 63 58 Weighted average interest rate 8.24 % 9.32 % 8.22 % 6.32 % — — 8.58 % Foreign government and agency securities 915 42 39 62 63 — 1,121 1,128 Weighted average interest rate 1.41 % 3.58 % 4.02 % 3.71 % 3.75 % — 1.84 % Other securities 2 10 — 9 — — 21 23 Weighted average interest rate 3.17 % 1.25 % — 2.30 % — — 1.87 % $ 3,089 $ 171 $ 220 $ 106 $ 81 $ — $ 3,667 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 3,679 34 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk During 2009, net sales from our International segment accounted for 48% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses
generated from our international websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include British
Pounds, Euros, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances
associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record
significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2009, International segment revenues decreased $174 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign
funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2009 of $2.8 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $140 million, $275 million, and $550 million. All
investments are classified as “available for sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in foreign currency. Based on the intercompany balances at
December 31, 2009 of $260 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to these foreign currencies would result in losses of $15 million, $25 million, and $50 million, recorded to “Other income
(expense), net.” See “Effect of Exchange Rates” for additional information on the effect on reported results
of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2009, our recorded basis in equity investments was $91 million. These investments primarily relate to equity-method
investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent
operating results and trends, recent sales or acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more
difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 35 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 37 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 38 Consolidated Statements of Operations 39 Consolidated Balance Sheets 40 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 41 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 36 Table of Contents Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB No. 141(R) Business Combinations , codified in ASC 805, Business Combinations , effective January 1, 2009. We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated January 28, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 28, 2010 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 2,769 $ 2,539 $ 1,022 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 902 645 476 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization 378 287 246 Stock-based compensation 341 275 185 Other operating expense (income), net 103 (24 ) 9 Losses (gains) on sales of marketable securities, net (4 ) (2 ) 1 Other expense (income), net (15 ) (34 ) 12 Deferred income taxes 81 (5 ) (99 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (105 ) (159 ) (257 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (531 ) (232 ) (303 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (481 ) (218 ) (255 ) Accounts payable 1,859 812 928 Accrued expenses and other 300 247 429 Additions to unearned revenue 1,054 449 244 Amortization of previously unearned revenue (589 ) (344 ) (211 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 3,293 1,697 1,405 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (373 ) (333 ) (224 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (40 ) (494 ) (75 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments 1,966 1,305 1,271 Purchases of marketable securities and other investments (3,890 ) (1,677 ) (930 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (2,337 ) (1,199 ) 42 FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 105 159 257 Common stock repurchased (100 ) (248 ) Proceeds from long-term debt and other 87 98 115 Repayments of long-term debt and capital lease obligations (472 ) (355 ) (74 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (280 ) (198 ) 50 Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (1 ) (70 ) 20 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 675 230 1,517 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 3,444 $ 2,769 $ 2,539 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest $ 32 $ 64 $ 67 Cash paid for income taxes 48 53 24 Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements 147 148 74 Fixed assets acquired under build-to-suit leases 188 72 15 Conversion of debt — 605 1 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net sales $ 24,509 $ 19,166 $ 14,835 Cost of sales 18,978 14,896 11,482 Gross profit 5,531 4,270 3,353 Operating expenses (1): Fulfillment 2,052 1,658 1,292 Marketing 680 482 344 Technology and content 1,240 1,033 818 General and administrative 328 279 235 Other operating expense (income), net 102 (24 ) 9 Total operating expenses 4,402 3,428 2,698 Income from operations 1,129 842 655 Interest income 37 83 90 Interest expense (34 ) (71 ) (77 ) Other income (expense), net 29 47 (8 ) Total non-operating income (expense) 32 59 5 Income before income taxes 1,161 901 660 Provision for income taxes (253 ) (247 ) (184 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (6 ) (9 ) — Net income $ 902 $ 645 $ 476 Basic earnings per share $ 2.08 $ 1.52 $ 1.15 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.04 $ 1.49 $ 1.12 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 433 423 413 Diluted 442 432 424 (1)    Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Fulfillment $ 79 $ 61 $ 39 Marketing 20 13 8 Technology and content 182 151 103 General and administrative 60 50 35 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2009 2008 A S S E T S Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,444 $ 2,769 Marketable securities 2,922 958 Inventories 2,171 1,399 Accounts receivable, net and other 988 827 Deferred tax assets 272 204 Total current assets 9,797 6,157 Fixed assets, net 1,290 854 Deferred tax assets 18 145 Goodwill 1,234 438 Other assets 1,474 720 Total assets $ 13,813 $ 8,314 L I A B I L I T I E S    A N D    S T O C K H O L D E R S’    E Q U I T Y Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 5,605 $ 3,594 Accrued expenses and other 1,759 1,152 Total current liabilities 7,364 4,746 Long-term debt 109 409 Other long-term liabilities 1,083 487 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares—500 — — Issued and outstanding shares—none Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares—5,000 Issued shares—461 and 445 — — Outstanding shares—444 and 428 5 4 Treasury stock, at cost (600 ) (600 ) Additional paid-in capital 5,736 4,121 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (56 ) (123 ) Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 172 (730 ) Total stockholders’ equity 5,257 2,672 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 13,813 $ 8,314 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) Total Stockholders’ Equity Shares Amount Balance at December 31, 2006 414 $ 4 $ (252 ) $ 2,517 $ (1 ) $ (1,837 ) $ 431 Net income — — — — — 476 476 Foreign currency translation losses, net of tax — — — — (3 ) — (3 ) Change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — — 8 — 8 Amortization of unrealized loss on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax — — — — 1 — 1 Comprehensive income 482 Change in accounting principle — — — 2 — (14 ) (12 ) Unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 4 — — 4 Exercise of common stock options and conversion of debt 8 — — 92 — — 92 Repurchase of common stock (6 ) — (248 ) — — — (248 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 257 — — 257 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 191 — — 191 Balance at December 31, 2007 416 4 (500 ) 3,063 5 (1,375 ) 1,197 Net income — — — — 645 645 Foreign currency translation losses, net of tax — — — — (127 ) — (127 ) Change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — — (1 ) — (1 ) Comprehensive income 517 Unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — (8 ) — — (8 ) Exercise of common stock options and conversion of debt 14 — 624 — — 624 Repurchase of common stock (2 ) — (100 ) — — (100 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 154 — — 154 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 288 — — 288 Balance at December 31, 2008 428 4 (600 ) 4,121 (123 ) (730 ) 2,672 Net income — — — — — 902 902 Foreign currency translation gains net of tax — — — — 62 — 62 Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — — 4 — 4 Amortization of unrealized loss on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax — — — — 1 — 1 Comprehensive income 969 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — 19 — — 19 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity 9 1 — 1,144 — — 1,145 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 103 — — 103 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 349 — — 349 Balance at December 31, 2009 444 $ 5 $ (600 ) $ 5,736 $ (56 ) $ 172 $ 5,257 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and offers Earth’s Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth’s
most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets: consumers, sellers, and developers. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We
offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We serve developers through Amazon Web Services, which provides access to technology infrastructure that
developers can use to enable virtually any type of business. In addition, we generate revenue through co-branded credit card agreements and other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising. We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See “Note 11—Segment
Information.” Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have
a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of
Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, valuation of
investments, collectability of receivables, sales returns, incentive discount offers, valuation of inventory, depreciable lives of fixed assets and internally-developed software, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, income taxes,
stock-based compensation, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Subsequent
Events We have evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial
statements through January 28, 2010, the day the financial statements were issued. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated
using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. 42 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 433 423 413 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards (1) 9 9 11 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 442 432 424 (1) Calculated using the treasury stock method, which assumes proceeds are used to reduce the dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards. Assumed proceeds include the
unrecognized deferred compensation of stock awards, and assumed tax proceeds from excess stock-based compensation deductions. Treasury Stock We account for treasury stock under the cost method and
include treasury stock as a component of stockholders’ equity. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments, including money market funds that comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using primarily the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of
cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and
expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain
of our sellers’ programs. The third party seller maintains ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third party seller, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. Accounts Receivable, Net, and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net, and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, vendor
receivables, net, were $495 million and $400 million, and customer receivables, net, were $341 million and $311 million. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and
historical experience of losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful customer and vendor receivables was $72 million and $81 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 43 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the
software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2009, 2008, and 2007, we capitalized $187 million (including $35 million of stock-based
compensation), $187 million (including $27 million of stock-based compensation), and $129 million (including $21 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously
capitalized amounts was $172 million, $143 million, and $116 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Depreciation of Fixed
Assets Fixed assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure,
internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our technology
infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is generally classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a
straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement.
Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the life of the lease, excluding renewal periods. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under
build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take some level of construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their
original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to
the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying
value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on estimated category expansion, pricing,
market segment penetration and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of
each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the periods presented. There were no events or circumstances from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2009 that would impact this conclusion. 44 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable
to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; deferred costs; certain equity investments; and intellectual property rights, net of amortization. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short to intermediate term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents,” or “Marketable
securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of these investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our consolidated balance sheets as “Other
assets.” Our share of the investees’ earnings or losses and amortization of the related intangible assets, if any, is classified as “Equity-method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant
influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of earnings, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We
periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their cost are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss
as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors
considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; other conditions that may affect the value of
our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant
change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. 45 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the
asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the
asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not
significant at December 31, 2009 or 2008. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were liabilities of $347 million and $270 million for
unredeemed gift certificates. We reduce the liability for a gift certificate when it is applied to an order. If a gift certificate is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or, for a certificate without an expiration date, when the
likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the
service period. Current unearned revenue is included in “Accrued expenses and other” and non-current unearned revenue is included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue was
$511 million and $191 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Non-current unearned revenue was $201 million and $46 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income
taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of
the U.S. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $912 million at December 31, 2009. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts
were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the
likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of
available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related 46 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider
many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in
income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1,
such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market
data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions,
consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other
significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate
units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: there is standalone value to the delivered item; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items; and delivery of any
undelivered item is probable. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related
costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators,
revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are
shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are
estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Amounts received in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other
membership programs, are 47 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where objective and reliable evidence of fair value for the undelivered elements cannot be
established, we recognize the revenue and related cost over the expected life of the product. We periodically provide
incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase,
and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to
purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Net
sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through other seller sites are
recognized when the item is sold by seller and our collectability is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in “Net sales” and were $924 million, $835 million, and $740 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Outbound shipping-related costs are included in “Cost of sales” and
totaled $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.2 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007. The net cost to us of shipping activities was $849 million, $630 million, and $434 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and content sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, and costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers
on behalf of other businesses. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as “Cost of sales” upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction
costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements to receive cash consideration from
certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We generally consider amounts received from our vendors as a reduction of the prices we pay for their products and, therefore, we record such amounts as either a
reduction of “Cost of sales” on our consolidated statements of operations, or, if the product inventory is still on hand, as a reduction of the carrying value of inventory. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum
purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the
purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor’s product
or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. 48 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs
attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain
seller transactions; and responding to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain of our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred
on behalf of other businesses are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily of online advertising, including through our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, and
other initiatives. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate
in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Marketing expenses also consist
of public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities; and to a lesser extent, traditional advertising. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily of online advertising, are expensed as incurred, and were $593 million,
$420 million, and $306 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally
of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in, application development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, as well as costs associated with the compute, storage and
telecommunications infrastructure used internally and supporting Amazon Web Services. Technology and content costs are
expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and
amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including
accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate
costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at fair value on date of grant and recognized over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is
determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that 49 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the
period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists
primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and other losses. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan,
Canada, and China . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in the functional currencies of the resident countries. The
functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these international websites is the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and
revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the
“Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity
involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Gains and
losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included in net income. In connection with the remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains of $5 million, $23 million and $32 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141 (R), Business Combinations ,
codified as Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements , codified as ASC 810, Consolidations. SFAS
No. 141 (R) requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess
value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to
be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 141 (R) impacted acquisitions closed on or after January 1, 2009. Adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements on the date of
adoption. In December 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2009-17, which codifies SFAS
No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) issued in June 2009. ASU 2009-17 requires a qualitative approach to identifying a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (“VIE”), and requires
ongoing assessment of whether an entity is a VIE and whether an interest in a VIE makes the holder the primary beneficiary of the VIE. ASU 2009-17 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2009. We do not expect the
adoption of ASU 2009-17 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 50 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13, which amends ASC Topic 605, Revenue
Recognition. Under this standard, management is no longer required to obtain vendor-specific objective evidence or third party evidence of fair value for each deliverable in an arrangement with multiple elements, and where evidence is not
available we may now estimate the proportion of the selling price attributable to each deliverable. We have chosen to prospectively adopt this standard as of January 1, 2010. Sales of our Kindle e-reader are considered arrangements with multiple elements which include the device, wireless access and delivery and
software upgrades. The revenue related to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs will be recognized at time of delivery. Revenue for the wireless access and delivery and software upgrades will
continue to be amortized over the life of the device, which remains estimated at two years. We cannot reasonably estimate the
effect of adopting this standard on future financial periods as the impact will vary based on actual volume of activity under these types of revenue arrangements. For arrangements entered into prior to the adoption of the new accounting standard and for which revenue had been previously deferred, we will recognize $508 million throughout 2010 and 2011. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-6, Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements , which requires reporting
entities to make new disclosures about recurring or nonrecurring fair-value measurements including significant transfers into and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair-value measurements and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a
gross basis in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair- value measurements. ASU 2010-6 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for Level 3 reconciliation disclosures which are effective for annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010-6 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2009 and 2008 our cash,
cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, government and government agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds and other investment grade securities. Such amounts are recorded at fair value. The following table
summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (in millions): December 31, 2009 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 391 $ — $ — $ 391 Money market funds 2,750 — — 2,750 Foreign government and agency securities 1,992 7 — 1,999 Corporate debt securities (1) 206 5 — 211 U.S. government and agency securities 1,268 5 (5 ) 1,268 Asset-backed securities 44 2 — 46 Other fixed income securities 6 — — 6 Equity securities 2 — (1 ) 1 $ 6,659 $ 19 $ (6 ) $ 6,672 Less: Long-term marketable securities (2) (306 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 6,366 51 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) December 31, 2008 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 355 $ — $ — $ 355 Money market funds 1,682 — — 1,682 Foreign government and agency securities 1,120 8 — 1,128 Corporate debt securities (1) 194 2 (2 ) 194 U.S. government and agency securities 589 5 — 594 Asset-backed securities 62 — (4 ) 58 Other fixed income securities 23 — — 23 Equity securities 2 — (1 ) 1 $ 4,027 $ 15 $ (7 ) $ 4,035 Less: Long-term marketable securities (2) (308 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 3,727 (1) Corporate debt securities include investments in financial, insurance, and corporate institutions. No single issuer represents a significant portion of the total
corporate debt securities portfolio. (2) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate
lease agreements. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable
securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Realized gains $ 4 $ 9 $ 2 Realized losses — 7 3 The following table summarizes contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and
marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2009 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 4,908 $ 4,909 Due after one year through five years 1,358 1,371 $ 6,266 $ 6,280 52 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The following table summarizes, by major security type, our assets that are measured at
fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2009 Cash Level 1 Estimated Fair Value Level 2 Estimated Fair Value Level 3 Estimated Fair Value Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 391 $ — $ — $ — $ 391 Money market funds — 2,750 — — 2,750 Foreign government and agency securities — — 1,999 — 1,999 Corporate debt securities — — 211 — 211 U.S. government and agency securities — — 1,268 — 1,268 Asset-backed securities — — 46 — 46 Other fixed income securities — — 6 — 6 Equity securities — 1 — — 1 $ 391 $ 2,751 $ 3,530 $ — $ 6,672 December 31, 2008 Cash Level 1 Estimated Fair Value Level 2 Estimated Fair Value Level 3 Estimated Fair Value Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 355 $ — $ — $ — $ 355 Money market funds — 1,682 — — 1,682 Foreign government and agency securities — — 1,128 — 1,128 Corporate debt securities — — 194 — 194 U.S. government and agency securities — — 594 — 594 Asset-backed securities — — 58 — 58 Other fixed income securities — — 23 — 23 Equity securities — 1 — — 1 $ 355 $ 1,683 $ 1,997 $ — $ 4,035 53 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Note 3—FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2009 2008 Gross Fixed Assets: Fulfillment and customer service $ 551 $ 564 Technology infrastructure 551 348 Internal-use software, content, and website development 398 331 Construction in progress (1) 278 87 Other corporate assets 137 79 Gross fixed assets 1,915 1,409 Accumulated Depreciation: Fulfillment and customer service 202 254 Technology infrastructure 178 82 Internal-use software, content, and website development 207 159 Other corporate assets 38 60 Total accumulated depreciation 625 555 Total fixed assets, net $ 1,290 $ 854 (1) We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for certain lease agreements, including our Seattle, Washington corporate office
space subject to leases scheduled to begin upon completion of development between 2010 and 2013. See “Note 6—Other Long-Term Liabilities” and “Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for further discussion. Depreciation expense on fixed assets was $384 million, $311 million, and $258 million, which includes
amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations of $88 million, $50 million, and $40 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $430 million and $304 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008. Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $184 million and $116 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Note
4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2009 Acquisition Activity On November 1, 2009, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity of Zappos.com, Inc. (“Zappos”), in exchange for shares of our
common stock, to expand our presence in softline retail categories, such as shoes and apparel. The fair value of Zappos’
stock options assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes model. The following table summarizes the consideration paid for Zappos (in millions): Stock issued $ 1,079 Assumed stock options, net 55 $ 1,134 54 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired
and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated purchase price recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined
primarily by using the income approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line and accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. The following summarizes the allocation of the Zappos purchase price (in millions): Goodwill $ 778 Other net assets acquired 83 Deferred tax liabilities net (167 ) Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 223 Contract-based 103 Customer-related 114 $ 1,134 (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between 1 and 10 years. Zappos’ financial results have been included in our consolidated statements of income as of November 1, 2009. The following pro
forma financial information presents the results as if the Zappos acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each year presented (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net sales $ 25,064 $ 19,801 Net income 853 606 We acquired certain additional companies during 2009 for an aggregate purchase price
of $26 million, resulting in goodwill of $16 million and acquired intangible assets of $5 million. The results of operations of each of the businesses acquired have been included in our consolidated results from each transactions closing date
forward. The effect of these acquisitions on consolidated net sales and operating income during 2009 was not significant. 2008 and 2007 Acquisition Activity We acquired certain companies during 2008 for an aggregate purchase price
of $432 million, resulting in goodwill of $210 million and acquired intangible assets of $162 million. We acquired certain
companies during 2007 for an aggregate purchase price of $33 million, resulting in goodwill of $21 million and acquired intangible assets of $18 million. We also made principal payments of $13 million on acquired debt in connection with one of
these acquisitions. The results of operations of each of the businesses acquired in 2008 and 2007 have been included in our
consolidated results from each transaction closing date forward. The effect of these acquisitions on consolidated net sales and operating income during 2008 and 2007 was not significant. 55 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Goodwill The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2009 (in millions): Goodwill—January 1, 2009 $ 438 New acquisitions 794 Other adjustments (1) 2 Goodwill—December 31, 2009 $ 1,234 (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange for goodwill in our International segment. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, approximately 9% and 22% of our acquired goodwill related to our International
segment. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following: December 31, 2009 2008 Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net (in millions) Marketing-related 9.5 $ 249 $ (11 ) $ 238 $ 23 $ (4 ) $ 19 Contract-based 3 166 (20 ) 146 62 (8 ) 54 Technology and content 3.1 15 (7 ) 8 10 (5 ) 5 Customer-related 4.8 215 (40 ) 175 97 (15 ) 82 Acquired intangibles (2) 7.3 $ 645 $ (78 ) $ 567 $ 192 $ (32 ) $ 160 (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between 1 and 13 years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $48 million, $29 million, and $13 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of
December 31, 2009 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2010 $ 100 2011 90 2012 74 2013 69 2014 58 Thereafter 176 $ 567 56 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Note 5—LONG-TERM DEBT Our long-term debt is summarized as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) 6.875% PEACS $ — $ 335 Other long-term debt 131 133 131 468 Less current portion of long-term debt (22 ) (59 ) $ 109 $ 409 In February 2008 our Board of Directors authorized a debt repurchase program,
replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, and pursuant to which we redeemed for cash the remaining €240 million ($319 million based on the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on the date of redemption) in
principal of our 6.875% PEACS in 2009, and we redeemed the remaining principal amount of $899 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes in 2008. Other long-term debt relates to amounts borrowed to fund certain international operations. Note 6—OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Tax contingencies $ 202 $ 144 Long-term capital lease obligations 143 124 Construction liability 278 87 Other 460 132 $ 1,083 $ 487 Tax Contingencies As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have provided tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, of
approximately $202 million and $144 million for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See “Note 10—Income Taxes” for
discussion of tax contingencies. 57 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Capital Leases Certain of our equipment fixed assets, primarily related to technology infrastructure, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term
capital lease obligations are as follows: December 31, 2009 (in millions) Gross capital lease obligations $ 276 Less imputed interest (14 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 262 Less current portion (119 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 143 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for certain lease agreements, including our Seattle,
Washington corporate office space subject to leases scheduled to begin upon completion of development between 2010 and 2013. For build-to-suit lease arrangements where we are involved in the construction of structural improvements prior to the commencement of the lease or take some level of construction risk, we are considered the owner of the assets during the
construction period. Accordingly, as the landlord incurs the construction project costs, the assets and corresponding financial obligation are recorded in “Fixed assets, net” and “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated
balance sheet. Once the construction is completed, if the lease meets certain “sale-leaseback” criteria, we will remove the asset and related financial obligation from the balance sheet and treat the building lease as an operating lease.
If upon completion of construction, the project does not meet the “sale-leaseback” criteria, the leased property will be treated as a capital lease for financial reporting purposes. The remainder of our other long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations,
and deferred rental liabilities. Note 7—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We lease office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $171 million, $158 million, and $141 million for 2009,
2008, and 2007. In December 2007, we entered into a series of leases and other agreements for the lease of corporate office
space to be developed in Seattle, Washington with initial terms of up to 16 years commencing on completion of development between 2010 and 2013, with options to extend for two five-year periods. We expect to occupy approximately 1.7 million
square feet of office space. We also have an option to lease up to an additional approximately 500,000 square feet at rates based on fair market values at the time the option is exercised, subject to certain conditions. In addition, if interest
rates exceed a certain threshold, we have the option to provide financing for some of the buildings. 58 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders
for inventory purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2009: Year Ended December 31, Thereafter Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (in millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and interest $ 31 $ 47 $ 36 $ 36 $ — $ — $ 150 Capital leases, including interest 130 95 44 8 3 — 280 Operating leases 162 146 130 122 115 317 992 Other commitments (1)(2) 187 101 93 89 88 1,181 1,739 Total commitments $ 510 $ 389 $ 303 $ 255 $ 206 $ 1,498 $ 3,161 (1) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately 1.7 million square feet
of corporate office space. The amount of space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected by various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and other
expenses and our exercise of certain rights under the lease agreements. (2) Excludes $181 million of tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Securities We have pledged or otherwise restricted a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and
marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount required to be pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of
our leases based on our credit rating and changes in our market capitalization. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows: Standby and Trade Letters of Credit and Guarantees Debt (1) Real Estate Leases (2) Total (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 138 $ 160 $ 10 $ 308 Net change in collateral pledged 4 (3 ) (6 ) (5 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 142 $ 157 $ 4 $ 303 (1) Represents collateral for certain debt related to our international operations. (2) At December 31, 2009, our market capitalization was $59.8 billion. The required amount of collateral to be pledged will increase by $1.5 million if our market
capitalization is equal to or below $40 billion, an additional $5 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $18 billion, and an additional $6 million if our market capitalization is equal to or below $13 billion. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In June 2001, Audible, Inc., our subsidiary acquired in March 2008, was named as a defendant in a securities class-action filed in United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
related to its 59 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) initial public offering in July 1999. The lawsuit also named certain of the offering’s underwriters, as well as Audible’s officers and directors as defendants. Approximately 300
other issuers and their underwriters have had similar suits filed against them, all of which are included in a single coordinated proceeding in the Southern District of New York. The complaints allege that the prospectus and the registration
statement for Audible’s offering failed to disclose that the underwriters allegedly solicited and received “excessive” commissions from investors and that some investors allegedly agreed with the underwriters to buy additional shares
in the aftermarket in order to inflate the price of Audible’s stock. Audible and its officers and directors were named in the suits pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and other related provisions. The complaints seek unspecified damages, attorney and expert fees, and other unspecified litigation costs. In March 2009, all parties, including Audible, reached a settlement of these class actions
that would resolve this dispute entirely with no payment required from Audible. The settlement was approved by the Court in October 2009, and that settlement is currently under appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant,
Beeler, Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to
collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys’
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In December 2005, Registrar
Systems LLC filed a complaint against us and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the method by which Amazon.com
enables customers to use Amazon.com account information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and apparatuses for a “World
Wide Web Registration Information Processing System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys’
fees. In September 2006, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patents in suit. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In August 2006, Cordance Corporation filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained by Cordance purporting to cover an
“Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure” (U.S. Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment
interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In response, we asserted a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent owned by us entitled
“Networked Personal Contact Manager” (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369). In August 2009, the case was tried and the jury ruled that Amazon was not liable on Cordance’s claims. An appeal is expected. In October 2007, Digital Reg of Texas, LLC filed a complaint against our subsidiary, Audible, Inc., and several other defendants in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint 60 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) alleges that Audible’s digital rights management technology infringes a patent obtained by Digital Reg purporting to cover a system for “Regulating Access to Digital Content” (U.S.
Patent No. 6,389,541) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and attorneys’ fees. In November 2009, we obtained a license to the
patent in suit and were dismissed from the lawsuit with prejudice. In January 2009, we learned that the United States Postal
Service, including the Postal Service Office of Inspector General, is investigating our compliance with Postal Service rules, and we are cooperating. In March 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Kindle
and Kindle 2 wireless reading devices infringe a patent owned by Discovery purporting to cover an “Electronic Book Security and Copyright Protection System” (U.S. Patent No. 7,298,851) and seeks monetary damages, a continuing royalty
sufficient to compensate Discovery for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In May 2009, we filed counterclaims and an additional lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington
against Discovery alleging infringement of several patents owned by Amazon and requesting a declaration that several Discovery patents, including the one listed above, are invalid and unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In March 2009, the Tobin Family Education and Health Foundation filed a
complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the technology underlying the Amazon Associates program infringes a patent owned by
Tobin purporting to cover a “Method and System for Customizing Marketing Services on Networks Communication with Hypertext Tagging Conventions” (U.S. Patent No. 7,505,913) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and
attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In April
2009, Parallel Networks, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned
by Parallel Networks purporting to cover a “Method And Apparatus For Client-Server Communication Using a Limited Capability Client Over A Low-Speed Communications Link” (U.S. Patent No. 6,446,111) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary
damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and
payments technology infringes a patent owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover an “Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce and Business Automation System” (U.S. Patent No. 6,115,690) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary
damages, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In June 2009, Bedrock Computer Technologies LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among
other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by Bedrock purporting to cover a “Method And Apparatus For Information Storage and Retrieval Using a Hashing Technique with External Chaining and On-the-Fly Removal of Expired
Data” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,893,120) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages, a compulsory future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves
in this matter. 61 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) In September 2009, SpeedTrack, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by SpeedTrack purporting to cover a “Method For Accessing Computer
Files and Data, Using Linked Categories Assigned to Each Data File Record on Entry of the Data File Record” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,544,360) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages, costs and attorneys fees. In November
2009, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patent in suit and the resolution of similar litigation against another party. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2009, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. filed a
complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology and digital content distribution systems infringe six of Alcatel-Lucent’s
patents and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, a continuing royalty sufficient to compensate Alcatel-Lucent for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2010, we filed counterclaims against Alcatel-Lucent
alleging infringement of a patent owned by Amazon and that the patents asserted by Alcatel-Lucent are invalid and unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In October 2009, Eolas Technologies Incorporated filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes two patents owned by Eolas purporting to cover “Distributed Hypermedia Method for Automatically Invoking External Application
Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document” (U.S. Patent No. 5,838,906) and “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and
Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document” (U.S. Patent No. 7,599,985) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter. In October 2009, Leon Stambler filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our use of secure online payments systems and services infringes two patents owned by Stambler purporting to cover a “Method for Securing
Information Relevant to a Transaction” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,793,302 and 5,974,148) and seeks monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In December 2009, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the processor core in our Kindle 2 device infringes two patents owned by Nazomi purporting to cover “Java virtual machine hardware for RISC and
CISC processors” and “Java hardware accelerator using microcode engine” (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,080,362 and 7,225,436) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution
of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. See also “Note 10—Income Taxes.” 62 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Inventory Suppliers During 2009, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements
with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Note
8—STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 461 million, 446 million, and 435 million at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. These totals include
all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting of vested and unvested awards. Common shares outstanding increased in 2009 due primarily to issuance of stock to acquire Zappos and vesting of restricted stock
units. Stock Repurchase Activity We did not repurchase any of our common stock in 2009. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of
Directors in February 2008. We repurchased 6.3 million shares of common stock for $248 million in 2007 under the $500 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2006. In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock which replaces the
Board’s prior authorization. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Stock Award Activity We granted restricted stock units representing 6.0 million, 7.3 million, 7.6 million shares of common stock during 2009, 2008, and 2007 with a per share weighted average fair value of
$79.24, $72.21, and $47.04. 63 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Outstanding at January 1, 2007 14.5 Units granted 7.6 Units vested (3.3 ) Units forfeited (2.5 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2007 16.3 Units granted 7.3 Units vested (5.5 ) Units forfeited (1.4 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2008 16.7 Units granted 6.0 Units vested (6.0 ) Units forfeited (1.0 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2009 15.7 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2009 is
as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Thereafter Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 5.9 5.5 2.6 1.4 0.2 0.1 15.7 As of December 31, 2009, there was $415 million of net unrecognized compensation
cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average
recognition period of 1.2 years. During 2009 and 2008, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $551 million
and $362 million. As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of common stock
in both 2009 and 2008. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2009,
common stock available for future issuance to employees is 149 million shares. 64 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Note 9—OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Net income $ 902 $ 645 $ 476 Net change in unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $(2), $0, and $(4) 7 — 8 Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in net income, net of tax effect of $1, $1, and $0 (3 ) (1 ) — Net unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities 4 (1 ) 8 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax effect of $0, $3, and $6 62 (127 ) (3 ) Amortization of net unrealized losses on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax effect of $0, $0, and $0 1 — 1 Other comprehensive income (loss) 67 (128 ) 6 Comprehensive income $ 969 $ 517 $ 482 Balances within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Net unrealized losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax $ (66 ) $ (128 ) Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 10 6 Net unrealized losses on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax — (1 ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (56 ) $ (123 ) 65 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Note 10—INCOME TAXES In 2009, 2008 and 2007 we recorded net tax provisions of $253 million, $247 million, and $184 million. A majority of this provision is
non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $48 million, $53 million, and $24
million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Current taxes: U.S. and state $ 149 $ 227 $ 275 International 23 25 8 Current taxes 172 252 283 Deferred taxes: U.S. and state 89 3 (109 ) International (8 ) (8 ) 10 Deferred taxes 81 (5 ) (99 ) Provision for income taxes, net $ 253 $ 247 $ 184 U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) U.S. $ 529 $ 436 $ 360 International (1) 632 465 300 Income before income taxes $ 1,161 $ 901 $ 660 (1) Included in 2008 is the impact of the $53 million non-cash gain associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed at rates substantially
below the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Effect of: Impact of foreign tax differential (16.9 ) (13.8 ) (11.7 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 1.1 2.8 2.1 Tax credits (0.4 ) (2.2 ) (1.1 ) Nondeductible stock-based compensation 1.7 1.7 1.4 Valuation allowance 0.4 2.6 (1.2 ) Other, net 1.0 1.3 3.4 Total 21.9 % 27.4 % 27.9 % 66 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) The effective tax rate in 2009, 2008, and 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal
statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. Included in the total tax provision as a discrete item during 2008 is the impact related to the
$53 million noncash gain associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed at rates substantially below the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses—stock-based compensation (1) $ 120 $ 120 Net operating losses—other 50 31 Net operating losses—obtained through acquisitions (2) 7 14 Stock-based compensation 118 73 Assets held for investment 125 152 Revenue items 58 53 Expense items 172 155 Other items 42 40 Net tax credits (3) 6 2 Total gross deferred tax assets 698 640 Less valuation allowance (4) (173 ) (199 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 525 441 Deferred tax liabilities: Basis difference in intangible assets (218 ) (80 ) Expense items (168 ) (12 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities $ 139 $ 349 (1) Excludes unrecognized federal net operating loss carryforward deferred tax assets of $40 million and $73 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The total gross
deferred tax assets relating to our federal excess stock-based compensation net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $160 million and $193 million (relating to approximately $456 million and $550 million of our
federal net operating loss carryforwards). The majority of our net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2021 and thereafter. (2) The utilization of some of these net operating loss carryforwards is subject to an annual limitation under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. (3) Presented net of fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with tax credits of $193 million and $130 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Total tax credits
available to be claimed in future years are approximately $199 million and $171 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and begin to expire in 2017. (4) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of future capital gains and net income in certain foreign taxing
jurisdictions. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax
positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary 67 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of
whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these
reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Gross tax contingencies—January 1, 2009 $ 166 $ 112 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 15 39 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods — (4 ) Gross increases to current period tax positions 1 22 Audit settlements paid during 2008 — (3 ) Foreign exchange gain (loss) on tax contingencies (1 ) — Gross tax contingencies—December 31, 2009 (1) $ 181 $ 166 (1) As of December 31, 2009, we had $181 million of tax contingencies of which $180 million, if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate and increase
additional paid-in capital by $1 million to reflect the tax benefits of excess stock-based compensation deductions. Due to the nature of our business operations we expect the total amount of tax contingencies for prior period tax positions will grow in 2010 in comparable amounts to 2009. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount
of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly decrease in 2010. The increase to current period tax positions in 2008 resulted primarily from acquisition-related activity and new regulations. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax
contingencies of $17 million and $14 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $3 million and $5 million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for calendar years 2005
through 2009. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in 2005 through 2009 may also be subject to examination by the IRS. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, in the following
major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2005 through 2009, France for 2006 through 2009, Germany for 2003 through 2009, Luxembourg for 2004 through 2009, and the United Kingdom for 2003 through 2009. In addition, in 2007, Japanese
tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $120 million against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005. We believe that these claims are without merit and are disputing the
assessment. Further proceedings on the assessment have been stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raises, and we have provided bank guarantees to suspend enforcement of the
assessment. We also may be subject to income tax examination by Japanese tax authorities for 2006 through 2009. 68 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Note 11—SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the
same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We
allocate to segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines
attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), net” to our segment operating results. A significant majority of our costs for “Technology and content” are incurred in
the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from
retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca. This segment includes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such as www.amazon.co.uk , www.amazon.de , www.amazon.co.jp , www.amazon.fr , and www.amazon.cn . This segment includes export sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites to customers
in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . 69 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income is as
follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) North America Net sales $ 12,828 $ 10,228 $ 8,095 Cost of sales 9,538 7,733 6,064 Gross profit 3,290 2,495 2,031 Direct segment operating expenses 2,581 2,050 1,631 Segment operating income $ 709 $ 445 $ 400 International Net sales $ 11,681 $ 8,938 $ 6,740 Cost of sales 9,440 7,163 5,418 Gross profit 2,241 1,775 1,322 Direct segment operating expenses 1,378 1,127 873 Segment operating income $ 863 $ 648 $ 449 Consolidated Net sales $ 24,509 $ 19,166 $ 14,835 Cost of sales 18,978 14,896 11,482 Gross profit 5,531 4,270 3,353 Direct segment operating expenses 3,959 3,177 2,504 Segment operating income 1,572 1,093 849 Stock-based compensation (341 ) (275 ) (185 ) Other operating expense, net (102 ) 24 (9 ) Income from operations 1,129 842 655 Total non-operating income (expense), net 32 59 5 Provision for income taxes (253 ) (247 ) (184 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax (6 ) (9 ) — Net income $ 902 $ 645 $ 476 Net sales shipped to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately half of
net sales for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Net sales from www.amazon.de , www.amazon.co.jp, and www.amazon.co.uk each represented 13% to 17% of consolidated net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Total assets, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2009 2008 North America $ 9,252 $ 5,266 International 4,561 3,048 Consolidated $ 13,813 $ 8,314 70 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Fixed assets, net, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2009 2008 North America $ 1,059 $ 666 International 231 188 Consolidated $ 1,290 $ 854 Depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America $ 327 $ 262 $ 212 International 57 49 46 Consolidated $ 384 $ 311 $ 258 Note 12—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2009 and 2008. The following
information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business
is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited
quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2009 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 9,519 $ 5,449 $ 4,651 $ 4,889 Gross profit 1,976 1,273 1,133 1,148 Income before income taxes 471 262 179 248 Provision for income taxes 85 60 39 69 Net income 384 199 142 177 Basic earnings per share $ 0.87 $ 0.46 $ 0.33 $ 0.41 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.85 $ 0.45 $ 0.32 $ 0.41 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 440 432 431 429 Diluted 450 441 440 437 71 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales (2) $ 6,704 $ 4,264 $ 4,063 $ 4,135 Gross profit 1,348 999 967 956 Income before income taxes 302 182 208 207 Provision for income taxes 79 59 46 62 Net income 225 118 158 143 Basic earnings per share $ 0.52 $ 0.28 $ 0.38 $ 0.34 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.52 $ 0.27 $ 0.37 $ 0.34 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 428 427 420 417 Diluted 436 436 430 426 (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes
in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. (2) Our year-over-year revenue growth was 36% for the first three quarters of 2008. For Q4 2008, our quarterly revenue growth rates declined to 18%, driven primarily by
decreased consumer demand following disruptions in the global financial markets and changes in foreign exchange rates (excluding the $320 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the fourth quarter,
net sales would have grown 24% compared with Q4 2007). 72 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations 19   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 33  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Segment
Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about
our net sales. Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across
dozens of product categories. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers, including through membership in Amazon Prime,
and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that we
operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings” and “—Other Contingencies.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 17 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future
results. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 $ 14,835 $ 10,711 Income from operations 1,406 1,129 842 655 389 Net income 1,152 902 645 476 190 Basic earnings per share (1) $ 2.58 $ 2.08 $ 1.52 $ 1.15 $ 0.46 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 2.53 $ 2.04 $ 1.49 $ 1.12 $ 0.45 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 447 433 423 413 416 Diluted 456 442 432 424 424 Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,495 $ 3,293 $ 1,697 $ 1,405 $ 702 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (979 ) (373 ) (333 ) (224 ) (216 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 2,516 $ 2,920 $ 1,364 $ 1,181 $ 486 December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ 18,797 $ 13,813 $ 8,314 $ 6,485 $ 4,363 Long-term debt 184 109 409 1,282 1,247 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use
software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 18 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use
words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results
could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the
amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes,
competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree
to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate
amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies
as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make
estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates,
judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions,
judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This
valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of
sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at December 31, 2010 we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $33 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less
than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows.
Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted
cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our
annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of
December 31, 2010 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility
directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility,
significant judgment must be applied to 21 Table of Contents determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2010 closing stock
price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards
expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that
will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating
expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $17 million impact on
our 2010 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were 29.7% and 33.1%. We
utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the compensation cost is expensed in the first year of a four year vesting term. The accelerated method also
adds a higher level of sensitivity of estimating forfeitures. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During
the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in
countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by
changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax
estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on
our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If we determine that
additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable, the majority of the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements, but was claimed on the tax return.
Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit generated will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 22 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,495 $ 3,293 $ 1,697 Investing activities (3,360 ) (2,337 ) (1,199 ) Financing activities 181 (280 ) (198 ) Our financial focus is on
long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $2.52 billion for 2010, compared to $2.92 billion and $1.36 billion for 2009 and 2008. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial
Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow in 2010 was primarily due to increased capital expenditures, changes in working capital, and utilization of excess
stock-based compensation deductions, partially offset by increases in operating income. The increase in free cash flow in 2009 primarily resulted from changes in working capital, increased operating income, and increased deferred revenue. Tax
benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows; accordingly, as such tax benefits decline, a greater amount of cash is classified as operating cash inflow.
Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital and the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many
variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
balances, which, at fair value, were $8.8 billion, $6.4 billion, and $3.7 billion, at December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $3.4 billion, $2.8 billion, and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009, and
2008, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.5 billion,
$3.3 billion, and $1.7 billion in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, and our co-branded credit
card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related
transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use
credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly. Changes to our operating cash flows have historically been driven primarily by changes in operating income and changes to the components of working capital, including
changes to receivable and payable days and inventory turns, as well as changes to non-cash items such as excess stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software
and website development costs, and cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(3.4) billion, $(2.3) billion, and $(1.2) billion in 2010, 2009,
and 2008, with the variability caused primarily by increased capital expenditures, increases in cash paid for acquisitions, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments. Capital expenditures were $979 million,
$373 million, and $333 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth, including investments in technology infrastructure including AWS, additional
capacity to support our fulfillment operations, and, in 2010, investments in corporate office space. We expect this trend to continue over time. 23 Table of Contents Capital expenditures included $176 million, $146 million, and $128 million for internal-use software and website development during 2010, 2009, and 2008. Stock-based compensation capitalized for
internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and investment activity of $352 million, $40 million, and $494 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $181 million, $(280) million, and $(198) million in 2010, 2009, and 2008.
Cash outflows from financing activities result from payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, repayments of long-term debt, and repurchases of common stock. Payments on obligations related
to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, and repayments of long-term debt, were $221 million, $472 million, and $355 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100
million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in February 2008. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation
deductions and proceeds from long-term debt. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $143 million, $87 million, and $98 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as
financing cash flows. Cash inflows (outflows) from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $259 million, $105 million, and $159 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. In 2010, 2009, and 2008 we recorded net tax provisions of $352 million, $253 million, and $247 million. A majority of this provision is
non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating loss carryforwards relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $75 million, $48
million, and $53 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. We used substantially all of our federal net operating loss carryforwards in 2010 and have available federal tax credits of $227 million. Once we use our credits, we expect cash paid for taxes
to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock, which replaces the prior February 2008 repurchase authorization described above. We did not
repurchase any of our common stock in 2010 or 2009. Additionally, in November 2010 and January 2011, we signed agreements to
acquire Quidsi, Inc. and LOVEFiLM International Limited for aggregate consideration of approximately $660 million, primarily in cash, and the assumption of debt. We expect the acquisitions to close in 2011, subject to regulatory approvals and
closing conditions. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note
6—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory
commitments, were $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. On average, our high inventory turnover means we collect from our
customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 11, 12, and 12 for 2010, 2009, and 2008. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including category expansion and
changes in our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment
providers. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our
anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies”). Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our free
shipping offers and Amazon Prime, by increased in-stock inventory availability and increased selection of product offerings, and by the impact of Zappos, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of 2009. 25 Table of Contents The International sales growth rate was 33%, 31%, and 33% in 2010, 2009, and 2008. The sales
growth in each year primarily reflects increased unit sales and a larger base of sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and other general merchandise. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices
for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and by increased in-stock inventory availability and increased selection of product offerings. Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates positively (negatively)
affected International net sales by $(107) million, $(174) million, and $131 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. We expect that, over time, our International segment will represent 50% or more of our consolidated net sales. Sales of products by marketplace sellers on our websites represented 31%, 30%, and 28% of unit sales in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Revenues
from these sales are recorded as a net amount. Because we focus on operating profits, we are largely neutral on whether an item is sold by us or by another seller. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results
is as follows: December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue (1)(2) $ 1,193 $ 924 $ 835 Outbound shipping costs (2,579 ) (1,773 ) (1,465 ) Net shipping cost $ (1,386 ) $ (849 ) $ (630 ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue 29 % 11 % 13 % Outbound shipping costs 45 21 25 Net shipping cost 63 35 45 Percent of Net Sales: Shipping revenue 3.5 % 3.8 % 4.4 % Outbound shipping costs (7.5 ) (7.2 ) (7.6 ) Net shipping cost (4.0 )% (3.4 )% (3.2 )% (1) Excludes amounts earned on shipping activities by third-party sellers where we do not provide the fulfillment service. (2) Includes amounts earned from Amazon Prime membership and Fulfillment by Amazon programs. We expect our net cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our free-shipping offers at an
increasing rate, including through membership in Amazon Prime; to the extent our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category; to the extent we reduce shipping rates; and to the extent we use more expensive shipping
methods. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in part through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers
is fundamental to our future success. One way we offer lower prices is through free-shipping offers, as well as through membership in Amazon Prime. 26 Table of Contents Supplemental information about our net sales is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ 6,881 $ 5,964 $ 5,350 Electronics and other general merchandise 10,998 6,314 4,430 Other (1) 828 550 448 Total North America $ 18,707 $ 12,828 $ 10,228 International Media $ 8,007 $ 6,810 $ 5,734 Electronics and other general merchandise 7,365 4,768 3,110 Other (1) 125 103 94 Total International $ 15,497 $ 11,681 $ 8,938 Consolidated Media $ 14,888 $ 12,774 $ 11,084 Electronics and other general merchandise 18,363 11,082 7,540 Other (1) 953 653 542 Total consolidated $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media 15 % 11 % 16 % Electronics and other general merchandise 74 43 41 Other 50 23 38 Total North America 46 25 26 International Media 18 % 19 % 24 % Electronics and other general merchandise 54 53 50 Other 22 9 65 Total International 33 31 33 Consolidated Media 17 % 15 % 20 % Electronics and other general merchandise 66 47 45 Other 46 20 42 Total consolidated 40 28 29 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect of exchange rates International Media 18 % 20 % 22 % Electronics and other general merchandise 57 56 49 Other 24 19 67 Total International 34 33 31 Consolidated Media 16 % 16 % 19 % Electronics and other general merchandise 67 48 44 Other 46 22 42 Total consolidated 40 29 28 Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media 43 % 52 % 58 % Electronics and other general merchandise 54 45 39 Other 3 3 3 Total consolidated 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Includes non-retail activities, such as AWS, miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, other seller sites, and our co-branded credit card agreements. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions): Year ended December 31, 2010 Year ended December 31, 2009 Year ended December 31, 2008 As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net As Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost of Sales $ 26,561 $ — $ 26,561 $ 18,978 $ — $ 18,978 $ 14,896 $ — $ 14,896 Fulfillment 2,898 (90 ) 2,808 2,052 (79 ) 1,973 1,658 (61 ) 1,597 Marketing 1,029 (27 ) 1,002 680 (20 ) 660 482 (13 ) 469 Technology and content 1,734 (223 ) 1,511 1,240 (182 ) 1,058 1,033 (151 ) 882 General and administrative 470 (84 ) 386 328 (60 ) 268 279 (50 ) 229 Other operating expense (income), net 106 — 106 102 — 102 (24 ) — (24 ) Total operating expenses $ 32,798 $ (424 ) $ 32,375 $ 23,380 $ (341 ) $ 23,039 $ 18,324 $ (275 ) $ 18,049 Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment 41 % 42 % 24 % 24 % 28 % 27 % Marketing 51 52 41 41 40 39 Technology and content 40 43 20 20 26 23 General and administrative 44 45 17 17 19 15 Percent of Net Sales: Fulfillment 8.5 % 8.2 % 8.4 % 8.1 % 8.6 % 8.3 % Marketing 3.0 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.4 Technology and content 5.1 4.4 5.1 4.3 5.4 4.6 General and administrative 1.4 1.1 1.3 1.1 1.5 1.2 Operating expenses
without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” and 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and content where we are the seller of record, inbound and outbound
shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2010 and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to
increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. 28 Table of Contents Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods presented were as
follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Gross Profit (in millions) $ 7,643 $ 5,531 $ 4,270 Gross Margin 22.3 % 22.6 % 22.3 % Gross margin for 2010
remained relatively consistent with the prior year periods. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size,
and weight of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our
customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a
percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2010 and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to
variable costs corresponding with sales volume, inventory levels, and product sales mix; payment processing and related transaction costs; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment
volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a
number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes
in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2010 and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to
increased spending on online marketing channels, such as sponsored search programs and our Associates program, and, in 2010, on television advertising. While costs associated with free shipping are not included in marketing expense, we view free shipping offers and Amazon Prime as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them
indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content including seller platforms, digital initiatives, and expansion of new and existing product categories, as well as technology
infrastructure so that we can continue to enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiency and support AWS. See “Overview” for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. 29 Table of Contents The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2010 and 2009 compared
to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and increased spending on technology infrastructure. We expect these trends to continue over time. For the years ended 2010, 2009, and 2008, we capitalized $213 million, $187 million, and $187 million of costs associated with
internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $184 million, $172 million, and $143 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure and other technology costs used to support AWS are included in
technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2010 and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is
primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $424 million, $341 million, and $275 million during 2010, 2009, and 2008. The increase in
stock-based compensation in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees and to a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. The increase in stock-based compensation in 2009
compared to 2008 is primarily due to a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $106 million, $102 million, and $(24) million during 2010, 2009 and 2008. In
2010, the amount primarily related to amortization of intangible assets, in 2009, the amount included amortization of intangible assets and a $51 million legal settlement, and in 2008, the balance included amortization of intangible assets and a $53
million noncash gain on the sale of our European DVD rental assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $51 million, $37 million, and $83 million during 2010, 2009, and 2008. We generally invest our excess cash in
investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending
on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary component of our net interest expense is related to
our capital and financing leases and our long-term debt. Interest expense was $39 million, $34 million, and $71 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. The decline in 2009 primarily relates to principal reductions of long term debt of $319 million. Our long-term liabilities were $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009. See 

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Liabilities.” Other
Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $79 million, $29 million, and $47 million during 2010, 2009, and
2008. The primary component of other income (expense), net, is related to foreign-currency gain on intercompany balances. 30 Table of Contents Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $352 million, $253 million, and $247 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. The effective tax rate
in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our
taxable income, the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates, business acquisitions and investments, and foreign currencies. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being
utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. We used substantially all of our federal net operating loss carryforwards in 2010 and have available federal tax credits of $227 million. As a result of new U.S. legislation that became effective in
December 2010, we are able to accelerate our depreciation deductions for qualifying property acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010. This accelerated depreciation deduction will continue for qualifying property acquired in 2011. Equity–Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity–method investment activity, net of tax, was $7 million, $(6) million, and $(9) million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. The increase in equity-method investment activity in 2010 compared to 2009 is
primarily due to the recognition of a non-cash gain on a previously held equity position in a company that was acquired in 2010. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements
of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31,
2010 Year Ended December 31,
2009 Year Ended December 31,
2008 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 34,290 $ (86 ) $ 34,204 $ 24,691 $ (182 ) $ 24,509 19,039 $ 127 $ 19,166 Operating expenses 32,856 (58 ) 32,798 23,522 (142 ) 23,380 18,206 118 18,324 Income from operations 1,434 (28 ) 1,406 1,170 (41 ) 1,129 832 10 842 Net interest income (expense) and other (3) 17 74 91 6 26 32 17 42 59 Net income 1,118 34 1,152 911 (9 ) 902 609 36 645 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.45 $ 0.08 $ 2.53 $ 2.06 $ (0.02 ) $ 2.04 $ 1.41 $ 0.08 $ 1.49 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for
operating results, and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our intercompany balances and 6.875% PEACS, which we redeemed in 2009. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating
results, and if we did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our intercompany balances and 6.875% PEACS, which we redeemed in 2009. (3) Includes foreign currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments, and remeasurement of our intercompany balances and 6.875% PEACS, which we redeemed in 2009. 31 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for
use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of “Free cash flow,” operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statement of operations, meet the
definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in
accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash
flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash
flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a
necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the
residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing
arrangements or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating
activities” for 2010, 2009, and 2008 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,495 $ 3,293 $ 1,697 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (979 ) (373 ) (333 ) Free cash flow $ 2,516 $ 2,920 $ 1,364 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (3,360 ) $ (2,337 ) $ (1,199 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 181 $ (280 ) $ (198 ) Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of stock-based
compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards
accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes
to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since it does
not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,”
“Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates
remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. 32 Table of Contents Guidance We provided guidance on January 27, 2011 in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: First Quarter 2011 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $9.1 billion and $9.9 billion, or to grow between 28% and 39% compared with first quarter 2010. • Operating income is expected to be between $260 million and $385 million, or between 34% decline and 2% decline compared with first quarter 2010. This
guidance includes approximately $140 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions or investments are concluded and that there are no further
revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty.
See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of
our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. All of our cash equivalent and
marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed
income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash
equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2010 (in millions, except percentages): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2010 Money market funds $ 1,882 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,882 $ 1,882 Weighted average interest rate 0.11 % — — — — — 0.11 % Corporate debt securities 90 128 219 1 — — 438 459 Weighted average interest rate 1.11 % 1.58 % 2.01 % 2.57 % — — 1.70 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 2,624 950 137 1 — — 3,712 3,756 Weighted average interest rate 0.17 % 0.72 % 1.57 % 2.86 % — — 0.36 % Asset backed securities 13 12 7 — — 32 33 Weighted average interest rate 2.18 % 1.83 % 2.01 % — — 2.01 % Foreign government and agency securities 1,346 410 337 30 — — 2,123 2,158 Weighted average interest rate 0.37 % 0.84 % 1.28 % 1.66 % — — 0.62 % Other securities 10 5 1 — — — 16 17 Weighted average interest rate 1.05 % 1.34 % 2.03 % — — 1.22 % $ 5,965 $ 1,505 $ 701 $ 32 $ — $ — $ 8,203 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed- income securities $ 8,305 33 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk During 2010, net sales from our International segment accounted for 45% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our international websites, as well as those relating to
www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include British Pounds, Euros, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries
that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For
example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2010, International segment revenues decreased $107 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2010
of $3.4 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $172 million, $345 million, and $689 million. All investments are classified as “available for sale.” Fluctuations in fair value
are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany
balances at December 31, 2010, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign currency exchange rates would result in losses of $40 million, $90 million, and $195 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Effect of Exchange Rates,” for additional information on the effect on reported results of
changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2010, our recorded basis in equity investments was $279 million. These investments primarily relate to equity-method investments in private companies. We review our investments for
impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales or acquisitions of
the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such,
we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 34 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 36 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 37 Consolidated Statements of Operations 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets 39 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 40 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41 35 Table of Contents Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Amazon.com, Inc. at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated January 27, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/
Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 27, 2011 36 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD $ 3,444 $ 2,769 $ 2,539 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income 1,152 902 645 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization 568 378 287 Stock-based compensation 424 341 275 Other operating expense (income), net 106 103 (24 ) Losses (gains) on sales of marketable securities, net (2 ) (4 ) (2 ) Other expense (income), net (79 ) (15 ) (34 ) Deferred income taxes 4 81 (5 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (259 ) (105 ) (159 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventories (1,019 ) (531 ) (232 ) Accounts receivable, net and other (295 ) (481 ) (218 ) Accounts payable 2,373 1,859 812 Accrued expenses and other 740 300 247 Additions to unearned revenue 687 1,054 449 Amortization of previously unearned revenue (905 ) (589 ) (344 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 3,495 3,293 1,697 INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (979 ) (373 ) (333 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and other (352 ) (40 ) (494 ) Sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments 4,250 1,966 1,305 Purchases of marketable securities and other investments (6,279 ) (3,890 ) (1,677 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (3,360 ) (2,337 ) (1,199 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation 259 105 159 Common stock repurchased — — (100 ) Proceeds from long-term debt and other 143 87 98 Repayments of long-term debt and of capital and financing leases (221 ) (472 ) (355 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 181 (280 ) (198 ) Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents 17 (1 ) (70 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 333 675 230 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD $ 3,777 $ 3,444 $ 2,769 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest $ 11 $ 32 $ 64 Cash paid for income taxes 75 48 53 Fixed assets acquired under capital leases 405 147 148 Fixed assets acquired under build-to-suit leases 172 188 72 Conversion of debt — — 605 See accompanying notes
to consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net sales $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 Operating expenses (1): Cost of sales 26,561 18,978 14,896 Fulfillment 2,898 2,052 1,658 Marketing 1,029 680 482 Technology and content 1,734 1,240 1,033 General and administrative 470 328 279 Other operating expense (income), net 106 102 (24 ) Total operating expenses 32,798 23,380 18,324 Income from operations 1,406 1,129 842 Interest income 51 37 83 Interest expense (39 ) (34 ) (71 ) Other income (expense), net 79 29 47 Total non-operating income (expense) 91 32 59 Income before income taxes 1,497 1,161 901 Provision for income taxes (352 ) (253 ) (247 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 7 (6 ) (9 ) Net income $ 1,152 $ 902 $ 645 Basic earnings per share $ 2.58 $ 2.08 $ 1.52 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.53 $ 2.04 $ 1.49 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 447 433 423 Diluted 456 442 432 (1)    Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Fulfillment $ 90 $ 79 $ 61 Marketing 27 20 13 Technology and content 223 182 151 General and administrative 84 60 50 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2010 2009 A S S E T S Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,777 $ 3,444 Marketable securities 4,985 2,922 Inventories 3,202 2,171 Accounts receivable, net and other 1,587 988 Deferred tax assets 196 272 Total current assets 13,747 9,797 Fixed assets, net 2,414 1,290 Deferred tax assets 22 18 Goodwill 1,349 1,234 Other assets 1,265 1,474 Total assets $ 18,797 $ 13,813 L I A B I L I T I E S    A N D    S T O C K H O L D E R S’    E Q U I T Y Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 8,051 $ 5,605 Accrued expenses and other 2,321 1,759 Total current liabilities 10,372 7,364 Long-term liabilities 1,561 1,192 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares—500 Issued and outstanding shares—none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares—5,000 Issued shares—468 and 461 Outstanding shares—451 and 444 5 5 Treasury stock, at cost (600 ) (600 ) Additional paid-in capital 6,325 5,736 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (190 ) (56 ) Retained earnings 1,324 172 Total stockholders’ equity 6,864 5,257 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 18,797 $ 13,813 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (in millions) Common Stock Treasury Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) Total Stockholders’ Equity Shares Amount Balance at December 31, 2007 416 $ 4 $ (500 ) $ 3,063 $ 5 $ (1,375 ) $ 1,197 Net income — — — — 645 645 Foreign currency translation losses, net of tax — — — — (127 ) — (127 ) Change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — — (1 ) — (1 ) Comprehensive income — — — — — — 517 Unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — (8 ) — — (8 ) Exercise of common stock options and conversion of debt 14 — 624 — — 624 Repurchase of common stock (2 ) — (100 ) — — (100 ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 154 — — 154 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 288 — — 288 Balance at December 31, 2008 428 4 (600 ) 4,121 (123 ) (730 ) 2,672 Net income — — — — — 902 902 Foreign currency translation gains net of tax — — — — 62 — 62 Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — — 4 — 4 Amortization of unrealized loss on terminated Euro Currency Swap, net of tax — — — — 1 — 1 Comprehensive income 969 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — 19 — — 19 Issuance of common stock for acquisition activity 9 1 — 1,144 — — 1,145 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 103 — — 103 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 349 — — 349 Balance at December 31, 2009 444 5 (600 ) 5,736 (56 ) 172 5,257 Net income — — — — — 1,152 1,152 Foreign currency translation gains net of tax — — — — (137 ) — (137 ) Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — — 3 — 3 Comprehensive income 1,018 Exercise of common stock options 7 — — 16 — — 16 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — 145 — — 145 Stock-based compensation and issuance of employee benefit plan stock — — — 428 — — 428 Balance at December 31, 2010 451 $ 5 $ (600 ) $ 6,325 $ (190 ) $ 1,324 $ 6,864 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 Table of Contents AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1—DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and offers Earth’s Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets:
consumers, sellers, and enterprises. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our
websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any
type of business. In addition, we generate revenue through other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising, and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See “Note 10—Segment Information.” Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary.
Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of
products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation, income taxes, valuation of investments and inventory,
collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of fixed assets and internally-developed software, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the
dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. The following table shows the calculation of
diluted shares (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share 447 433 423 Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards (1) 9 9 9 Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share 456 442 432 (1) Calculated using the treasury stock method, which assumes proceeds are used to reduce the dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards. Assumed proceeds include the
unrecognized deferred compensation of stock awards, and assumed tax proceeds from excess stock-based compensation deductions. 41 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using primarily the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make
judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs. Third party sellers
maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories. Accounts Receivable, Net, and Other Included in “Accounts receivable, net, and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, vendor
receivables, net, were $763 million and $495 million, and customer receivables, net, were $561 million and $341 million. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful customer and vendor receivables was $72 million and $72 million
at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the
software . Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2010, 2009, and 2008, we capitalized $213 million (including $38 million of stock-based
compensation), $187 million (including $35 million of stock-based compensation), and $187 million (including $27 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously
capitalized amounts was $184 million, $172 million, and $143 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Depreciation of Fixed
Assets Fixed assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure,
internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our technology
infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a
straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the 42 Table of Contents agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we
are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under
the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as financing leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease
period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is
performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are
based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on estimated category expansion, pricing, market segment share and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the
periods presented. There were no events or circumstances from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2010 that would impact this conclusion. See “Note 4—Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated
balance sheets are amounts primarily related to marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; acquired
intangible assets, net of amortization; deferred costs; certain equity investments; and intellectual property rights, net of amortization. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short-
to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents,” or “Marketable securities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified
as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of these
investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our consolidated balance sheets as “Other assets.” Our share of the investees’ earnings or
losses, amortization of the related intangible assets, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as “Equity-method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are
accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as “Other assets” on 43 Table of Contents our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and
additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale
and included in “Marketable securities” in our consolidated balance sheet and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This
evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess
whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating
trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline
in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is
used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We
measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the
asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not
significant at December 31, 2010 or 2009. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in “Accrued expenses and other” at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were liabilities of $503 million and $347 million
for unredeemed gift certificates. We reduce the liability for a gift certificate when it is applied to an order. If a gift certificate is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or, for a certificate without an expiration date, when the
likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized
over the service period. Current unearned revenue is included in “Accrued expenses and other” and non-current unearned revenue is included in “Long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue
was $461 million and $511 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Non-current unearned revenue was $34 million and $201 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income
taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of
the U.S. Undistributed 44 Table of Contents earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would
be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not
be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing
jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate
the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step
is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic
adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the
inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1 —Valuations based on
quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 —Valuations
based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or
other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 —Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with
reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure
the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other
significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and
revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. Also, see “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” below. 45 Table of Contents We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and
related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these
indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sales price. If we are not primarily obligated, and do not have latitude in establishing prices, amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the
two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional
discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our
delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Amounts received in advance for
subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such
as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement
offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers
and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in “Net sales.” Commissions and per-unit fees received from
sellers and similar amounts earned through other seller sites are recognized when items are sold by sellers and our collectability is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in “Net sales.” Outbound shipping-related costs are included in “Cost of sales.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and content sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our
suppliers are included in inventory cost, and recognized as “Cost of sales” upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in
“Fulfillment” on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements.
We generally consider amounts received from our vendors as a reduction of the prices we pay for their products and, therefore, record such amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory we buy from them. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon
reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress
towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the
vendor’s product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to “Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. 46 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing
inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and responding to inquiries from customers.
Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures; and payroll and
related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as
“Marketing” on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs, are expensed as incurred, and were $890 million, $593 million, and $420 million in 2010, 2009,
and 2008. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application
development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, as well as costs associated with the compute, storage and telecommunications infrastructure used internally and supporting AWS. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and
website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of
payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as
depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based
Compensation Compensation cost for all stock-based awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant
and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of
estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded
as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of intangible asset amortization expense, expenses related to legal settlements, and certain gains and losses on the sale of assets. 47 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities and foreign currency transaction
gains and losses. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, and Italy . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, as well as most of the
related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in the functional currencies of the resident countries. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these international websites is the same as
the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are
included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity, and in the “Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents,” on our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of
operations. In connection with the remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded losses of $70 million in 2010, and gains of $5 million, and $23 million in 2009 and 2008. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved With Variable Interest Entities , which
provides authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities. The new guidance requires a qualitative approach to identifying a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (“VIE”), and requires
ongoing assessment of whether an entity is a VIE and whether an interest in a VIE makes the holder the primary beneficiary of the VIE. We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2010. Adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements. On January 1, 2010, we prospectively adopted ASU 2009-13, which amends Accounting Standards
Codification (“ASC”) Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. Under this standard, we allocate revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party
evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. Estimated selling prices are management’s best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately. Sales of our Kindle e-reader are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, 3G wireless access and
delivery for some models, and software upgrades. Under the prior accounting standard, we accounted for sales of the Kindle ratably over the average estimated life of the device. Accordingly, revenue and associated product cost of the device through
December 31, 2009, were deferred at the time of sale and recognized on a straight-line basis over the two year average estimated economic life. As of January 2010, we account for the sale of the Kindle as multiple deliverables. The revenue related to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are
recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to 3G wireless access and delivery and software upgrades is amortized over the average life of the device, which remains estimated at two years. Because we have adopted ASU 2009-13 prospectively, we are recognizing $508 million throughout 2010 and 2011 for revenue previously
deferred under the prior accounting standard. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-6, Improving Disclosures About
Fair Value Measurements , which requires reporting entities to make new disclosures about recurring or nonrecurring fair-value measurements including significant transfers into and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair-value measurements and
information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair-value 48 Table of Contents measurements. ASU 2010-6 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for Level 3 reconciliation disclosures which are effective for annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of ASU 2010-6 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statement disclosures. Note 2—CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign
government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds and other investment grade securities. Such amounts are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our assets that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): December 31, 2010 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 613 $ — $ — $ 613 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 1,882 — — 1,882 Equity securities 2 — (1 ) 1 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 2,152 7 (1 ) 2,158 U.S. government and agency securities 3,746 11 (1 ) 3,756 Corporate debt securities 457 3 (1 ) 459 Asset-backed securities 32 1 — 33 Other fixed income securities 17 — — 17 $ 8,901 $ 22 $ (4 ) 8,919 Less: Long-term restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (157 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 8,762 December 31, 2009 Cost or Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ 391 $ — $ — $ 391 Level 1 securities: Money market funds 2,750 — — 2,750 Equity securities 2 — (1 ) 1 Level 2 securities: Foreign government and agency securities 1,992 7 — 1,999 U.S. government and agency securities 1,268 5 (5 ) 1,268 Corporate debt securities 206 5 — 211 Asset-backed securities 44 2 — 46 Other fixed income securities 6 — — 6 $ 6,659 $ 19 $ (6 ) 6,672 Less: Long-term restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (1) (306 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 6,366 (1) We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit,
guarantees, debt, and real estate lease agreements. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note
6—Commitments and Contingencies.” 49 Table of Contents The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of
available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Realized gains $ 5 $ 4 $ 9 Realized losses 4 — 7 The following table
summarizes contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2010 (in millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ 5,973 $ 5,976 Due after one year through five years 2,312 2,329 $ 8,285 $ 8,305 Note 3—FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2010 2009 Gross Fixed Assets (1): Fulfillment and customer service $ 778 $ 551 Technology infrastructure 1,240 551 Internal-use software, content, and website development 487 398 Other corporate assets 491 137 Construction in progress 260 278 Gross fixed assets 3,256 1,915 Accumulated Depreciation (1): Fulfillment and customer service 211 202 Technology infrastructure 316 178 Internal-use software, content, and website development 255 207 Other corporate assets 60 38 Total accumulated depreciation 842 625 Total fixed assets, net $ 2,414 $ 1,290 (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation expense on fixed assets was $552 million, $384 million, and $311 million which includes amortization of fixed assets
acquired under capital lease obligations of $164 million, $88 million, and $50 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $818 million, and $430 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Accumulated
depreciation associated with capital leases was $331 million and $184 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 50 Table of Contents We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for
lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes, including portions of our Seattle, Washington, corporate office space that we do not currently occupy. The buildings which we have not yet
occupied are scheduled to be completed between 2011 and 2013. For buildings that are under build-to-suit lease arrangements,
where we have taken occupancy during the year ended December 31, 2010, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner. These arrangements do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance due principally
to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings in the amount of $189 million have been reclassified within “Fixed assets” from “Construction in progress” to “Other corporate assets” and
are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related lease terms. The long-term construction obligation has been reclassified within “Long-term liabilities” from “Construction liability” to “Long-term
financing lease obligations” with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as “Accrued expenses and other.” Note 4—ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2010 Acquisition Activity In 2010, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $228 million, resulting in goodwill of $111 million and acquired intangible assets of $91 million. The primary reasons for these
acquisitions were to expand our customer base and sales channels. The purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date, with the
remaining unallocated purchase price recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined primarily by using the income and cost approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized
on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. The acquired companies were consolidated into our
financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The financial effect of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, was not material to our consolidated financial statements. Pro forma results of operations have not
been presented because the effects of these business combinations, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2009 Acquisition Activity On November 1, 2009, we acquired 100% of
the outstanding equity of Zappos.com, Inc. (“Zappos”), in exchange for shares of our common stock, to expand our presence in softline retail categories, such as shoes and apparel. The fair value of Zappos’ stock options assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes model. The following table summarizes the
consideration paid for Zappos (in millions): Stock issued $ 1,079 Assumed stock options, net 55 $ 1,134 The purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated purchase price recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined primarily by using the
income approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line and accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. 51 Table of Contents The following summarizes the allocation of the Zappos purchase price (in millions): Goodwill $ 778 Other net assets acquired 83 Deferred tax liabilities net (167 ) Intangible assets (1): Marketing-related 223 Contract-based 103 Customer-related 114 $ 1,134 (1) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between 1 and 10 years. Zappos’ financial results have been included in our consolidated statements of income as of November 1, 2009. The following pro
forma financial information presents the results as if the Zappos acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each year presented (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net sales $ 25,064 $ 19,801 Net income 853 606 We acquired certain
additional companies during 2009 for an aggregate purchase price of $26 million, resulting in goodwill of $16 million and acquired intangible assets of $5 million. All of the entities have been consolidated into our financial statements since their
respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these business combinations, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2008 Acquisition Activity We acquired certain companies during 2008 for an aggregate purchase price of $432 million, resulting in goodwill of $210 million and acquired intangible assets of $162 million. All of these entities have
been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these business combinations, individually and in the aggregate, were not
material to our consolidated results of operations. Goodwill Goodwill is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily comprised of intangible assets that do not qualify for separate
recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2010 and 2009 (in millions): North America International Consolidated Goodwill—January 1, 2009 $ 273 $ 165 $ 438 New acquisitions 781 13 794 Other adjustments (1) 1 1 2 Goodwill—December 31, 2009 1,055 179 1,234 New acquisitions 60 51 111 Other adjustments (1) 1 3 4 Goodwill—December 31, 2010 $ 1,116 $ 233 $ 1,349 (1) Primarily includes changes in foreign exchange for goodwill in our International segment. 52 Table of Contents Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following: December 31, 2010 2009 Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross (1) Accumulated Amortization (1) Acquired Intangibles, Net (in millions) Marketing-related 8.8 $ 277 $ (37 ) $ 240 $ 249 $ (11 ) $ 238 Contract-based 5.8 183 (43 ) 140 166 (20 ) 146 Technology and content 8.6 34 (10 ) 24 15 (7 ) 8 Customer-related 4.9 251 (92 ) 159 215 (40 ) 175 Acquired intangibles (2) $ 745 $ (182 ) $ 563 $ 645 $ (78 ) $ 567 (1) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. (2) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives of between 1 and 10 years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $105 million, $48 million, and $29 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of
December 31, 2010 is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2011 $ 112 2012 94 2013 81 2014 68 2015 60 Thereafter 148 $ 563 Note 5—LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our long-term liabilities are summarized as follows: December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Long-term debt $ 184 $ 109 Long-term capital lease obligations 276 143 Long-term financing lease obligations 181 — Construction liability 260 278 Tax contingencies 243 202 Other 417 460 $ 1,561 $ 1,192 53 Table of Contents Long-term Debt As of December 31, 2010, and 2009, our long-term debt was $184 million and $109 million, had a weighted average interest rate of 5.5%
and 6.4%, and maturities in 2011, 2012, and 2013. Long-term debt relates to amounts borrowed to fund certain international operations. Capital Leases Certain of our equipment fixed assets, primarily related to
technology infrastructure, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows: December 31, 2010 (in millions) Gross capital lease obligations $ 511 Less imputed interest (17 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 494 Less current portion of capital lease obligation (218 ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ 276 Financing leases We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as “Construction liability.” As such,
these arrangements are accounted for as financing leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows: December 31, 2010 (in millions) Gross financing lease obligations $ 271 Less imputed interest (84 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments 187 Less current portion of financing lease obligation (6 ) Total long-term financing lease obligations $ 181 Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for certain build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for
accounting purposes, including our Seattle, Washington, corporate office space that we do not currently occupy. See “Note 3—Fixed Assets” for a discussion of these leases. Tax Contingencies As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, of approximately $243 million and $202 million for U.S. and foreign
income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See “Note 9—Income Taxes” for discussion of tax contingencies. The remainder of our long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations,
and deferred rental liabilities. 54 Table of Contents Note 6—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital and
financing leases for equipment and office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $225 million, $171 million, and $158 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal
operations, as of December 31, 2010: Year Ended December 31, Thereafter Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (in millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and interest $ 54 $ 95 $ 101 $ — $ — $ — $ 250 Capital leases, including interest 235 168 85 15 8 — 511 Financing lease obligations, including interest (1) 16 16 17 18 18 186 271 Operating leases 244 227 192 179 148 563 1,553 Other commitments (2) (3) 107 105 76 65 72 789 1,214 Total commitments $ 656 $ 611 $ 471 $ 277 $ 246 $ 1,538 $ 3,799 (1) Relates to the 590,000 square feet of occupied corporate office space under build-to-suit lease arrangements (2) Includes the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately 1.11 million square feet
of corporate office space currently being developed under build-to-suit leases and which we anticipate occupying in 2011 to 2013. The amount of space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected by
various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and other expenses and our exercise of certain rights under the lease agreements. See “Note 3—Fixed Assets” for a discussion of these
leases. (3) Excludes $213 million of tax contingencies for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment, if any. Pledged Securities We have pledged or otherwise restricted $160 million and $303 million in 2010 and 2009 of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt related
to our international operations, as well as real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. Inventory Suppliers During 2010, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise,
particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In June 2001, Audible, Inc., our subsidiary acquired in March 2008, was named as a defendant in a securities class-action filed in United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to its initial public offering in July 1999. The lawsuit also named certain of the offering’s underwriters, as well as 55 Table of Contents Audible’s officers and directors as defendants. Approximately 300 other issuers and their underwriters have had similar suits filed against them, all of which are included in a single
coordinated proceeding in the Southern District of New York. The complaints allege that the prospectus and the registration statement for Audible’s offering failed to disclose that the underwriters allegedly solicited and received
“excessive” commissions from investors and that some investors allegedly agreed with the underwriters to buy additional shares in the aftermarket in order to inflate the price of Audible’s stock. Audible and its officers and
directors were named in the suits pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and other related provisions. The complaints seek unspecified damages, attorney and expert
fees, and other unspecified litigation costs. In March 2009, all parties, including Audible, reached a settlement of these class actions that would resolve this dispute entirely with no payment required from Audible. The settlement was approved by
the Court in October 2009, and that settlement is currently under appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant,
Beeler, Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to
collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys’
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In August 2006, Cordance
Corporation filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained
by Cordance purporting to cover an “Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure” (U.S. Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged
willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. In response, we asserted a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent
owned by us entitled “Networked Personal Contact Manager” (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369). In August 2009, a jury trial was held and the jury found that all asserted claims of the ‘710 patent were not infringed by Amazon or were
invalid. In February 2010, the Court partially reversed the jury’s findings, ruling that some of the asserted claims of the ‘710 Patent were valid and were infringed by Amazon. We commenced our appeal of the Court’s ruling in the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in August 2010. In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society,
Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against several Amazon.com EU subsidiaries in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites
to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of
products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contest Austro-Mechana’s claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. In March 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court
for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Kindle e-reader infringes a patent owned by Discovery purporting to cover an “Electronic Book Security and Copyright Protection System” (U.S. Patent No. 7,298,851) and seeks
monetary damages, a continuing royalty sufficient to compensate Discovery for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In May 2009, we filed counterclaims and an additional lawsuit in the United States District Court for
the Western District of 56 Table of Contents Washington against Discovery alleging infringement of several patents owned by Amazon and requesting a declaration that several Discovery patents, including the one listed above, are invalid and
unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In April
2009, Parallel Networks, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned
by Parallel Networks purporting to cover a “Method And Apparatus For Client-Server Communication Using a Limited Capability Client Over A Low-Speed Communications Link” (U.S. Patent No. 6,446,111) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary
damages, costs and attorneys fees. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice in February 2010, but the plaintiff filed a new complaint against us the following month containing similar allegations. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes a patent owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover
an “Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce and Business Automation System” (U.S. Patent No. 6,115,690) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In June 2009, Bedrock Computer Technologies LLC filed a
complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by Bedrock purporting to cover a
“Method And Apparatus For Information Storage and Retrieval Using a Hashing Technique with External Chaining and On-the-Fly Removal of Expired Data” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,893,120) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced
damages, a compulsory future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice in March 2010, but the plaintiff filed a new complaint against us the following month containing similar allegations. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2009, SpeedTrack, Inc. filed
a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by SpeedTrack purporting to
cover a “Method For Accessing Computer Files and Data, Using Linked Categories Assigned to Each Data File Record on Entry of the Data File Record” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,544,360) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced
damages, costs and attorneys fees. In November 2009, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office’s re-examination of the patent in suit and the resolution of similar litigation against
another party. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In
September 2009, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology and digital content distribution
systems infringe six of Alcatel-Lucent’s patents and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, a continuing royalty sufficient to compensate Alcatel-Lucent for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2010,
we filed counterclaims against Alcatel-Lucent alleging infringement of a patent owned by Amazon and that the patents asserted by Alcatel-Lucent are invalid and unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter. In October 2009, Eolas Technologies Incorporated filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes two patents owned by Eolas purporting to cover “Distributed Hypermedia Method
for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document” (U.S. Patent No. 5,838,906) and “Distributed Hypermedia Method and 57 Table of Contents System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document” (U.S. Patent No. 7,599,985) and seeks
injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In December 2009, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other
things, that the processor core in our Kindle e-reader infringes two patents owned by Nazomi purporting to cover “Java virtual machine hardware for RISC and CISC processors” and “Java hardware accelerator using microcode
engine” (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,080,362 and 7,225,436) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In February 2010, Texas OCR Technologies LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleged, among other things, that our Search Inside the Book feature infringes a patent owned by Texas OCR Technologies purporting to cover a “Methodology for Displaying Search Results Using
Character Recognition” (U.S. Patent No. 6,363,179) and sought monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2011, we settled this litigation on terms that include a nonexclusive license to the patent in suit and, accordingly, the
lawsuit has been dismissed with prejudice. In May 2010, Sharing Sound LLC filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleged, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent licensed by the plaintiffs purporting to cover a “Distribution of
Musical Products by a Website Vendor Over the Internet” (U.S. Patent No. 6,233,682) and sought monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2011, we settled this litigation on terms that include a nonexclusive
license to the patent in suit and, accordingly, we expect the lawsuit to be dismissed with prejudice. In May 2010, Site
Update Solutions LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by
Site Update purporting to cover a “Process for Maintaining Ongoing Registration for Pages on a Given Search Engine” (U.S. Patent No. RE40,683) and seeks monetary damages, a future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In May 2010, Stragent, LLC and Seesaw
Foundation filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain of our AWS technologies infringe a patent licensed by the
plaintiffs purporting to cover a “Method of Providing Data Dictionary-Driven Web-Based Database Applications” (U.S. Patent No. 6,832,226) and seeks monetary damages, a future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In July 2010, Positive Technologies Inc.
filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain of our products, including our Kindle e-reader, infringe three
patents owned by the plaintiff purporting to cover a “DC Integrating Display Driver Employing Pixel Status Memories” (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,444,457, 5,627,558 and 5,831,588) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and
attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In July
2010, the Federal Trade Commission staff informed us that it was considering whether to recommend enforcement proceedings against us for advertising and selling certain textile fiber products as “bamboo” when they are made of rayon
manufactured from bamboo, in violation of the Textile Fiber Product 58 Table of Contents Identification Act, the FTC Act, and the regulations promulgated there under. We do not believe we have violated these laws and regulations and are cooperating voluntarily with the
Commission’s inquiry. In September 2010, Olympic Developments AG, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain aspects of our technology, including our Kindle e-reader, infringe two patents owned by the plaintiff
purporting to cover a “Transactional Processing System” (U.S. Patent No. 5,475,585) and a “Device for Controlling Remote Interactive Receiver” (U.S. Patent No. 6,246,400B1) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief,
costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In November 2010, Kelora Systems, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Wisconsin. The complaint alleges that our website infringes a patent owned by Kelora Systems purporting to cover a “Method and system for executing a guided parametric search” (U.S. Patent No. 6,275,821) and
seeks monetary damages, costs, attorneys fees, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In December 2010, Global Sessions LP filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other
things, that certain Amazon and AWS technologies infringe four patents owned by the plaintiff purporting to cover a “System And Method For Maintaining A State For A User Session Using A Web System Having A Global Session Server” (U.S.
Patent No. 6,076,108), an “Enterprise Interaction Hub For Managing An Enterprise Web System” (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,085,220 and 6,360,249), and a “System And Method For Maintaining A State For A User Session Using A Web System”
(U.S. Patent No. 6,480,894), and seeks monetary damages, a future royalty, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In December 2010, Technology Innovations, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’s sale of e-books and Kindle e-readers infringes a patent owned by the plaintiff purporting to cover a “Device For Including Enhancing Information
With Printed Information And Method For Electronic Searching Thereof” (U.S. Patent No. 5,517,407) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs, interest, and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all
of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Other Contingencies In September 2010, the State of Texas issued an assessment of $269 million for uncollected sales taxes for the period from
December 2005 to December 2009, including interest and penalties through the date of the assessment. The State of Texas is alleging that we should have collected sales taxes on applicable sales transactions during those years. We believe that the
State of Texas did not provide a sufficient basis for its assessment and that the assessment is without merit. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. See also “Note 9—Income Taxes.” 59 Table of Contents Note 7—STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par
value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 465 million, 461 million, and
446 million, at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. These totals include all vested and unvested stock-based awards outstanding, before consideration of estimated forfeitures. Stock Repurchase Activity In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock, which replaces the Board’s prior authorization. We did not repurchase any of our
common stock in 2010 or 2009. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in February 2008. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Stock Award Activity We granted restricted stock units representing
5.3 million, 6.0 million, and 7.3 million shares of common stock during 2010, 2009, and 2008 with a per share weighted average fair value of $140.43, $79.24, and $72.21. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Number of Units Outstanding at January 1, 2008 16.3 Units granted 7.3 Units vested (5.5 ) Units forfeited (1.4 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2008 16.7 Units granted 6.0 Units vested (6.0 ) Units forfeited (1.0 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2009 15.7 Units granted 5.3 Units vested (5.7 ) Units forfeited (1.3 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2010 14.0 Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2010 is as follows (in
millions): Year Ended December 31, Thereafter Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units 5.3 4.3 2.4 1.3 0.5 0.2 14.0 60 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, there was $601 million of net unrecognized compensation cost
related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average
recognition period of 1.4 years. During 2010 and 2009, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $792 million
and $551 million. As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of common stock
in both 2010 and 2009. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2010,
common stock available for future issuance to employees is 160 million shares. Note 8—OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Net income $ 1,152 $ 902 $ 645 Net change in unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax of $(2), $(2), and $0 5 7 — Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in net income, net of tax effect of $0, $1, and $1 (2 ) (3 ) (1 ) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities 3 4 (1 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax effect of $29, $0, and $3 (137 ) 62 (127 ) Other — 1 — Other comprehensive income (loss) (134 ) 67 (128 ) Comprehensive income $ 1,018 $ 969 $ 517 Balances within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Net unrealized losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax $ (203 ) $ (66 ) Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 13 10 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (190 ) $ (56 ) Note 9—INCOME TAXES In 2010, 2009, and 2008 we recorded net tax provisions of $352 million, $253 million, and $247 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses
relating to excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $75 million, $48 million, and $53 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. 61 Table of Contents The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Current taxes: U.S. and state $ 311 $ 149 $ 227 International 37 23 25 Current taxes 348 172 252 Deferred taxes: U.S. and state 1 89 3 International 3 (8 ) (8 ) Deferred taxes 4 81 (5 ) Provision for income taxes, net $ 352 $ 253 $ 247 U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) U.S. $ 886 $ 529 $ 436 International (1) 611 632 465 Income before income taxes $ 1,497 $ 1,161 $ 901 (1) Included in 2008 is the impact of the $53 million non-cash gain associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed at rates substantially
below the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Effect of: Impact of foreign tax differential (12.7 ) (16.9 ) (13.8 ) State taxes, net of federal benefits 1.5 1.1 2.8 Tax credits (1.1 ) (0.4 ) (2.2 ) Nondeductible stock-based compensation 1.6 1.7 1.7 Valuation allowance (0.1 ) 0.4 2.6 Other, net (0.7 ) 1.0 1.3 Total 23.5 % 21.9 % 27.4 % The effective tax rate in 2010, 2009, and 2008 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily
due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. Included in the total tax provision as a discrete item during 2008 is the impact related to the $53 million noncash gain
associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed at rates substantially below the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. 62 Table of Contents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows: December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions ) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses—stock-based compensation (1) $ 4 $ 120 Net operating losses—other 82 50 Net operating losses—obtained through acquisitions (2) 7 7 Stock-based compensation 101 118 Assets held for investment 61 125 Revenue items 23 58 Expense items 254 172 Other items 75 42 Net tax credits (3) 14 6 Total gross deferred tax assets 621 698 Less valuation allowance (4) (146 ) (173 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 475 525 Deferred tax liabilities: Basis difference in intangible assets (209 ) (218 ) Expense items (226 ) (168 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities $ 40 $ 139 (1) Excludes unrecognized federal net operating loss carryforward deferred tax assets of $40 million at December 31, 2009. The total gross deferred tax assets relating
to our federal excess stock-based compensation net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $4 million and $160 million (relating to approximately $13 million and $456 million of our federal net operating loss
carryforwards). The majority of our net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2023 and thereafter. (2) The utilization of some of these net operating loss carryforwards is subject to an annual limitation under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. (3) Presented net of fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with tax credits of $230 million and $193 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Total tax credits
available to be claimed in future years are approximately $244 million and $199 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and begin to expire in 2015. (4) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of future capital gains and net income in certain foreign taxing
jurisdictions. Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax
positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties
based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable.
We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. 63 Table of Contents The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Gross tax contingencies—January 1 $ 181 $ 166 Gross increases to tax positions in prior periods 31 15 Gross decreases to tax positions in prior periods (1 ) — Gross increases to current period tax positions 5 1 Audit settlements paid during 2010 (3 ) — Foreign exchange gain (loss) on tax contingencies 0 (1 ) Gross tax contingencies—December 31 (1) $ 213 $ 181 (1) As of December 31, 2010, we had $213 million of tax contingencies all of which, if fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. Due to the nature of our business operations we expect the total amount of tax contingencies for prior period
tax positions will grow in 2011 in comparable amounts to 2010, however changes in state and federal tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by
various tax authorities. These assessments may not result in changes to our contingencies. As of December 31, 2010 and
2009, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $21 million and $17 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the year ended December 31,
2010 and 2009 was $4 million and $3 million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal
Revenue Service (“IRS”) for calendar years 2005 through 2010. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in 2005 through 2010 may also be subject to examination by the IRS. We are under
examination, or may be subject to examination, in the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2005 through 2010, France for 2007 through 2010, Germany for 2003 through 2010, Japan for 2006 through 2010, Luxembourg for
2005 through 2010, and the United Kingdom for 2004 through 2010. In December 2010, we learned that the French government is investigating certain of our European affiliates regarding income taxes, and we are cooperating. In addition, in 2007, Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $120 million
against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005. Proceedings on the assessment were stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese tax authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raised, and we provided bank
guarantees to suspend enforcement of the assessment. In 2010, the U.S. and Japanese tax authorities reached an agreement, on the allocation of our income between the U.S. and Japan for 2003 through 2005. The amount of tax expense, net of related
deductions and foreign tax credits, recorded for this assessment was not significant. We have paid the assessment and the Japanese tax authorities have released all of the bank guarantees. Note 10—SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating
results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses
“Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not
allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), 64 Table of Contents net” to our segment operating results. A majority of our costs for “Technology and content” are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North
America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions
through North America-focused websites such as www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused locations. This segment includes
export sales from these internationally based locations (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from our U.S. and Canadian locations. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) North America Net sales $ 18,707 $ 12,828 $ 10,228 Segment operating expenses (1) 17,752 12,119 9,783 Segment operating income $ 955 $ 709 $ 445 International Net sales $ 15,497 $ 11,681 $ 8,938 Segment operating expenses (1) 14,516 10,818 8,290 Segment operating income $ 981 $ 863 $ 648 Consolidated Net sales $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 Segment operating expenses (1) 32,268 22,937 18,073 Segment operating income 1,936 1,572 1,093 Stock-based compensation (424 ) (341 ) (275 ) Other operating income (expense), net (106 ) (102 ) 24 Income from operations 1,406 1,129 842 Total non-operating income (expense), net 91 32 59 Provision for income taxes (352 ) (253 ) (247 ) Equity-method investment activity, net of tax 7 (6 ) (9 ) Net income $ 1,152 $ 902 $ 645 (1) Represents operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense (income), net,” which are not allocated to segments. Net sales earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions outside of
the U.S. represented approximately half of net sales for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Net sales earned in Germany, Japan, and United Kingdom each represented 11% to 15% of net sales in 2010, and 13% to 17% of net sales in 2009 and 2008. 65 Table of Contents Total assets, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2010 2009 North America $ 12,460 $ 9,252 International 6,337 4,561 Consolidated $ 18,797 $ 13,813 Fixed assets, net, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions): December 31, 2010 2009 North America $ 1,958 $ 1,059 International 456 231 Consolidated $ 2,414 $ 1,290 Fixed assets, net, located outside of the U.S. represented less than 10% of consolidated fixed assets, net,
for any individual country. Depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 North America $ 455 $ 327 $ 262 International 97 57 49 Consolidated $ 552 $ 384 $ 311 Note 11—QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2010 and 2009. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a
fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher
sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2010 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 12,948 $ 7,560 $ 6,566 $ 7,131 Income before income taxes 506 292 297 401 Provision for income taxes 84 79 88 100 Net income 416 231 207 299 Basic earnings per share $ 0.93 $ 0.51 $ 0.46 $ 0.67 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.91 $ 0.51 $ 0.45 $ 0.66 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 450 448 447 445 Diluted 458 456 455 454 66 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 (1) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ 9,519 $ 5,449 $ 4,651 $ 4,889 Income before income taxes 471 262 179 248 Provision for income taxes 85 60 39 69 Net income 384 199 142 177 Basic earnings per share $ 0.87 $ 0.46 $ 0.33 $ 0.41 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.85 $ 0.45 $ 0.32 $ 0.41 Shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 440 432 431 429 Diluted 450 441 440 437 (1) The sum of quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year-to-date periods. This is due to the effects of rounding and changes
in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. 67 Table of Contents 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 32  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment
Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about
our net sales. Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across
dozens of product categories. We also manufacture and sell Kindle devices. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, including through membership in Amazon Prime, and to
improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that we
operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings” and “—Other Contingencies.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of
Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On January 28, 2010, we
publicly announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion of the Company’s common stock with no fixed expiration. We may make these purchases in the open market or through privately negotiated
transactions and in discretionary purchases or pursuant to pre-established purchase plans. The table below sets forth information regarding our purchases of our common stock during Q4 2011 (in millions, except Average Price Paid Per Share data): Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced 
Program Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Repurchased Under the
Program October 1—October 31, 2011 — $ — — $ 2,000 November 1—November 30, 2011 1.5 189.22 1.5 1,723 December 1—December 31, 2011 — — — 1,723 Total 1.5 1.5 16 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 48,077 $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 $ 14,835 Income from operations 862 1,406 1,129 842 655 Net income 631 1,152 902 645 476 Basic earnings per share (1) $ 1.39 $ 2.58 $ 2.08 $ 1.52 $ 1.15 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.37 $ 2.53 $ 2.04 $ 1.49 $ 1.12 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 453 447 433 423 413 Diluted 461 456 442 432 424 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 $ 1,697 $ 1,405 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (1,811 ) (979 ) (373 ) (333 ) (224 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 2,092 $ 2,516 $ 2,920 $ 1,364 $ 1,181 Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 25,278 $ 18,797 $ 13,813 $ 8,314 $ 6,485 Total long-term obligations 2,625 1,561 1,192 896 1,574 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use
software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 17 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact,
including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and
similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among
others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and
the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in
operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops
commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies
as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make
estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates,
judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions,
judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This
valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of
sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $50 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less
than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the
carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion,
pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could
significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance
of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of
sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2011 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that
we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine 20 Table of Contents whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2011, closing stock price
would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards
expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that
will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating
expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $24 million impact on
our 2011 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were 28% and 30%. We utilize
the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over 50% of the compensation cost is expensed in the first year of a four year vesting term. If forfeited early in the life of an
award, the forfeited amount is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in
evaluating and estimating our tax positions and determining our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For
example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred
in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions, by changes in the valuation
of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional
income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an
audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made, as well as prior and subsequent periods. If we determine that additional portions of our deferred tax assets are realizable, the majority of the benefit will come from the assets
associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized in the financial statements, but was claimed on the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements of operations, the benefit
generated will be recorded to stockholders’ equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 Investing activities (1,930 ) (3,360 ) (2,337 ) Financing activities (482 ) 181 (280 ) Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP
financial measure, was $2.09 billion for 2011, compared to $2.52 billion and $2.92 billion for 2010 and 2009. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by
operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow in 2011 was primarily due to increased capital expenditures and changes in working capital, partially offset by increases in sales of gift certificates to our customers, decreased tax benefits on
excess stock-based compensation deductions, and increases in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation expense. The decrease in free cash flow in 2010 was primarily due to increased capital expenditures, changes
in working capital, and utilization of excess stock-based compensation deductions, partially offset by increases in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation expense. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based
compensation deductions are presented in the statement of cash flows as financing cash inflows; accordingly, as such tax benefits decline, a greater amount of cash is classified as operating cash inflow. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can
be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our federal taxable income. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables,
including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $9.6 billion, $8.8 billion, and
$6.4 billion, at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $4.1 billion, $3.4 billion, and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.9 billion, $3.5 billion, and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Our operating
cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and
services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our
long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle
quickly. Changes to our operating cash flows have historically been driven primarily by changes in operating income and changes to the components of working capital, including changes to receivable and payable days and inventory turns, as well as
changes to non-cash items such as excess stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Cash used in investing activities
corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and
maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities was $(1.9) billion, $(3.4) billion, and $(2.3) billion in 2011, 2010, and 2009, with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures and changes in cash paid
for acquisitions, and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments. Capital expenditures were $1.8 billion, $979 million, and $373 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, with the sequential increases primarily reflecting
additional investments in 22 Table of Contents support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations. We expect this trend to
continue over time. Capital expenditures included $256 million, $176 million, and $146 million for internal-use software and website development during 2011, 2010, and 2009. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website
development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2011, 2010, and 2009, we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and investment activity of $705 million, $352 million, and $40 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(482) million, $181 million, and $(280) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Cash
outflows from financing activities result from payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, repurchases of common stock, and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on obligations related to
capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt, were $444 million, $221 million, and $472 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. We repurchased 1.5 million shares of common stock for $277 million in
2011 under the $2 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in January 2010. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long term-debt and proceeds from tax benefits relating to excess
stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $177 million, $143 million, and $87 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash
flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $62 million, $259 million, and $105 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. In 2011, 2010, and 2009 we recorded net tax provisions of $291 million, $352 million, and $253 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based
compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed
since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. At December 31, 2011, amounts held by foreign subsidiaries were $3.6 billion, which include undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely
invested outside of the U.S. of $2.0 billion. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate them. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $33 million, $75 million, and $48
million for 2011, 2010, and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $384 million. We also have approximately $273 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax
liabilities. Once we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies”
for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $3 billion at
December 31, 2011. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancelable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory turnover means we collect from our customers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was 10, 11, and 12 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. We expect variability
in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including category expansion and changes in our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability, our investment
in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. We
believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject
to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to
receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increased product, digital content, including Prime Instant
Video, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the periods
presented were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Gross profit (in millions) $ 10,789 $ 7,643 $ 5,531 Gross margin 22.4 % 22.3 % 22.6 % Gross margin for 2011 remained relatively consistent with the prior year periods. We believe that income
from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. 27 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs,
our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services
sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller
transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a
percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009, compared to the
comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and
related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory
levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and
other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we
would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in
2011, 2010, and 2009, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as sponsored search programs and our Associates program, payroll and related expenses, and in 2011 and
2010 television and print advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not
included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several
areas of technology and content including seller platforms, digital initiatives, AWS and expansion of new and existing product categories and offerings, as well as technology infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and
improve our process efficiency. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increased spending on technology infrastructure and increases
in payroll and related expenses. Spending in technology and content significantly increased in 2011, and we expect this trend to continue over time as we invest in these areas by adding technology infrastructure and increasing payroll and related
expenses. See “Overview” for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation. For 2011, 2010, and 2009, we capitalized $307 million (including $51 million of stock-based compensation), $213 million (including $38 million of stock-based compensation), and $187 million (including $35
million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of 28 Table of Contents previously capitalized amounts was $236 million, $184 million, and $172 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009. A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated
to our North America segment. Infrastructure and other technology costs used to support AWS are included in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and
administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $557 million, $424 million, and $341 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. The increase in 2011, 2010, and 2009 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due
to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees and to a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense
(income), net was $154 million, $106 million, and $102 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. In 2011, 2010, and 2009, the amounts primarily related to amortization of intangible assets and additionally, in 2009, a $51 million legal settlement. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 39% in 2011 and increased 25% and 34% in 2010 and 2009. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $61 million,
$51 million, and $37 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average
balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary component of our interest expense is related to our capital and financing leases and our long-term debt. Interest expense was $65 million, $39 million, and $34 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Our long-term liabilities were $2.6 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010. See 

  Item 8 of
Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Liabilities.” Other
Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $76 million, $79 million, and $29 million during 2011, 2010, and
2009. The primary component of other income (expense), net, is related to foreign-currency gains on intercompany balances. Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $291 million, $352 million, and $253 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. The effective tax rate in 2011, 2010, and 2009 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal
statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in 29 Table of Contents the U.S. Earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. primarily relate to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. The favorable effective tax rate impact of earnings
in lower tax rate jurisdictions is offset by other items, principally losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we may not able to realize a related tax benefit. Depending upon the jurisdictional mix and amount of our income in 2012, the losses for
which we may not receive a tax benefit in 2012 could result in an effective tax rate that is higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our taxable income, the taxable jurisdictions to which it relates,
business acquisitions and investments, foreign exchange rates, and expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S.
taxable income. As of December 31, 2011, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $384 million. We also have approximately $273 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Once we
utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. As a result of U.S. legislation enacted in December 2010, we accelerated our depreciation deductions for qualifying property acquired
in 2010 and 2011. Equity–Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity–method investment gains (losses), net of tax, were $(12) million, $7 million, and $(6) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. The
increase in equity-method investment activity in 2011 compared to 2010 is primarily due to $175 million of equity-method losses, partially offset by gains of $163 million as a result of reductions in our equity ownership, through dilution, and a
recovery on the sale of an equity position. The increase in equity-method investment activity in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to the recognition of a non-cash gain on a previously held equity position in a company that was acquired in
2010. Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 46,985 $ 1,092 $ 48,077 $ 34,290 $ (86 ) $ 34,204 $ 24,691 $ (182 ) $ 24,509 Operating expenses 46,176 1,039 47,215 32,856 (58 ) 32,798 23,522 (142 ) 23,380 Income from operations 809 53 862 1,434 (28 ) 1,406 1,170 (41 ) 1,129 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for
operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating
results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for
use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of “Free cash flow,” operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statement of operations, meet the
definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in
accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. 30 Table of Contents Free cash flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by (used in) operating
activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because,
although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary
expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements or cash payments for business
acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by operating activities” for 2011, 2010, and 2009 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development (1,811 ) (979 ) (373 ) Free cash flow $ 2,092 $ 2,516 $ 2,920 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,930 ) $ (3,360 ) $ (2,337 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (482 ) $ 181 $ (280 ) Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of
stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such
awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our
footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since
it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,”
“Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates
remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on January 31, 2012 in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking
statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 31, 2012. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic
conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below. First Quarter 2012 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $12.0 billion and $13.4 billion, or to grow between 22% and 36% compared with first quarter 2011. 31 Table of Contents • Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(200) million and $100 million, or between 162% decline and 69% decline compared with first quarter
2011. • This guidance includes approximately $200 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other
things, that no additional business acquisitions or investments are concluded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of
our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. All of our cash equivalent and
marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed
income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash
equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2011 (in millions, except percentages): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2011 Money market funds $ 3,651 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 3,651 $ 3,651 Weighted average interest rate 0.06 % — — — — — 0.06 % Corporate debt securities 140 280 124 1 — — 545 563 Weighted average interest rate 1.46 % 1.88 % 2.01 % 1.66 % — — 1.80 % U.S . Government and Agency Securities 1,390 963 179 31 — — 2,563 2,593 Weighted average interest rate 0.12 % 0.29 % 0.63 % 1.16 % — — 0.23 % Asset backed securities 23 26 5 — — — 54 55 Weighted average interest rate 1.16 % 1.13 % 1.77 % — — — 1.21 % Foreign government and agency securities 782 279 450 81 — — 1,592 1,640 Weighted average interest rate 0.17 % 0.87 % 0.91 % 0.91 % — — 0.54 % Other securities 11 6 4 — — — 21 22 Weighted average interest rate 0.74 % 0.75 % 0.70 % — — — 0.74 % $ 5,997 $ 1,554 $ 762 $ 113 $ — $ — $ 8,426 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed -income securities $ 8,524 32 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk During 2011, net sales from our International segment accounted for 44% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses
generated from our international websites, as well as those relating to www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British
Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated
with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant
gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2011, International segment revenues increased $1.1 billion in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign
funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2011 of $4.1 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $205 million, $405 million, and $815 million. All
investments are classified as “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany
balances at December 31, 2011, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $55 million, $110 million, and $220 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Effect of Exchange Rates,” for additional information on the effect on reported results of
changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2011, our recorded basis in equity investments was $266 million. These investments primarily relate to equity-method investments in private companies. We review our investments for
impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the
investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we
believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 33 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 35 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 36 Consolidated Statements of Operations 37 Consolidated Balance Sheets 38 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 39 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 40 34 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 33  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Segment Information.” See 

Item 7 of Part II,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumers We serve
consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our
websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell Kindle devices. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, including through
membership in Amazon Prime, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that we
operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales of
Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 16 Table of Contents   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future
results. Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations: Net sales $ 61,093 $ 48,077 $ 34,204 $ 24,509 $ 19,166 Income from operations 676 862 1,406 1,129 842 Net income (loss) (39 ) 631 1,152 902 645 Basic earnings per share (1) $ (0.09 ) $ 1.39 $ 2.58 $ 2.08 $ 1.52 Diluted earnings per share (1) $ (0.09 ) $ 1.37 $ 2.53 $ 2.04 $ 1.49 Weighted average shares used in computation of earnings per share: Basic 453 453 447 433 423 Diluted 453 461 456 442 432 Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,180 $ 3,903 $ 3,495 $ 3,293 $ 1,697 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (3,785 ) (1,811 ) (979 ) (373 ) (333 ) Free cash flow (2) $ 395 $ 2,092 $ 2,516 $ 2,920 $ 1,364 December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ 32,555 $ 25,278 $ 18,797 $ 13,813 $ 8,314 Total long-term obligations 5,361 2,625 1,561 1,192 896 (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and
Accounting Policies.” (2) Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized
internal-use software and website development, both of which are presented on our consolidated statements of cash flows. See 

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 17 Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact,
including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends,
and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among
others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and
the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in
operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and
develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and
uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in   

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company’s critical accounting policies
as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make
estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates,
judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies.” Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions,
judgments, or conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This
valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of
sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at December 31, 2012 we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $60 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less
than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the
carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion,
pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could
significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance
of the business relative to the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of
sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2012 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. 20 Table of Contents Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through
our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether
credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a prolonged 20% decrease from our December 31, 2012, closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is
determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated
estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment,
and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $22 million impact on our 2012 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, were 27% and 28%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method,
for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense adjustment
is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and
estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being
lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit,
by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, by acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, with a number of countries actively considering changes in this regard. In addition, we are subject
to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially
different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for
prior and subsequent periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting
Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 21 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 4,180 $ 3,903 $ 3,495 Investing activities (3,595 ) (1,930 ) (3,360 ) Financing activities 2,259 (482 ) 181 Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP
financial measure, was $395 million for 2012, compared to $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion for 2011 and 2010. See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by
operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow in 2012 and 2011, compared to the comparable prior year periods, was primarily due to increased capital expenditures partially offset by higher operating cash flows. Operating cash flows and free
cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our net income. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables,
including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $11.4 billion, $9.6 billion, and
$8.8 billion, at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $5.1 billion, $4.1 billion, and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen, and
Chinese Yuan. Cash provided by operating activities was $4.2 billion, $3.9 billion, and $3.5 billion in 2012, 2011, and 2010.
Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee
compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations.
Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase
in operating cash flow in 2012, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to increases in non-cash expenses partially offset by the decrease in net income; additions to unearned revenue; and changes in working capital;
partially offset by increased tax benefits on excess stock-based compensation deductions. The increase in operating cash flow in 2011, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to additions to unearned revenue; increases in
sales of gift certificates to our customers; decreased tax benefits on excess stock-based compensation deductions; and the increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation; partially offset by changes in
working capital. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold
improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing
activities was $(3.6) billion, $(1.9) billion, and $(3.4) billion in 2012, 2011, and 2010, with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital expenditures and changes in cash paid for acquisitions, and purchases, maturities, and sales of
marketable securities and other investments. Capital expenditures were $3.8 billion, $1.8 billion, and $979 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, with the increases primarily reflecting the purchase of property in 2012, and additional investments in
support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment 22 Table of Contents operations during all three periods. We expect this trend to continue over time. The purchase of property in 2012 included the acquisition of 11 buildings comprising 1.8 million square feet
of our previously leased corporate office space and three city blocks in Seattle, Washington for $1.4 billion. Capital expenditures included $381 million, $256 million, and $176 million for internal-use software and website development during
2012, 2011, and 2010. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. In 2012, 2011, and 2010, we made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other
investment activity of $745 million, $705 million, and $352 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $2.3
billion, $(482) million, and $181 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010. Cash outflows from financing activities result from repurchases of common stock, payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements,
and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt, were $588 million, $444 million, and $221 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010. We
repurchased 5.3 million shares of common stock for $960 million in 2012 and 1.5 million shares of common stock for $277 million in 2011 under the $2.0 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in January 2010. Cash
inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $3.4 billion, $177 million, and $143 million in
2012, 2011, and 2010. During 2012, cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of $3.0 billion of senior nonconvertible unsecured debt in three tranches: $750 million of 0.65% notes due in 2015; $1.0
billion of 1.20% notes due in 2017; and $1.3 billion of 2.50% notes due in 2022. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. Tax
benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were $429 million, $62 million, and $259 million in 2012, 2011, and
2010. In 2012, 2011, and 2010 we recorded net tax provisions of $428 million, $291 million, and $352 million. A majority of
this provision is non-cash. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we
would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings. At December 31, 2012, cash held by foreign subsidiaries was $4.3 billion, which include undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely
invested outside of the U.S. of $2.1 billion. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $112 million, $33 million, and $75 million for 2012, 2011, and 2010. As of December 31, 2012, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately
$89 million. We also have approximately $136 million of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. As we utilize our federal tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to
optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. See 

  Item 8 of Part II,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase
orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $3.8 billion at December 31, 2012. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancelable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due.
Inventory turnover was 9, 10, and 11 for 2012, 2011, and 2010. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time as it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus
on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. 23 Table of Contents We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 

  Item 8 of Part I, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—Description of Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, including Prime Instant Video, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging
supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in 2012, 2011, and 2010 compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased product, digital content, and shipping costs
resulting from increased sales, as well as from expansion of digital offerings. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin
for each of the periods presented were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Gross profit (in millions) $ 15,122 $ 10,789 $ 7,643 Gross margin 24.8 % 22.4 % 22.3 % Gross margin increased in 2012, compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to services
sales increasing as a percentage of total sales. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services. 27 Table of Contents Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs,
our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services
sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with
seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher
fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in 2012, 2011, and 2010,
compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and
payment processing and related transaction costs. We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection
and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and
other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we
would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense. The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in
2012, 2011, and 2010, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is primarily due to increased spending on online marketing channels, such as sponsored search programs and our Associates program, payroll and related expenses, and television
advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing
expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content such as technology infrastructure, including AWS, digital initiatives, and expansion of new and existing physical and digital
product categories and offerings, so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. We expect spending in technology and content to increase over time as we continue to add employees and technology
infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in absolute dollars in 2012, 2011, and 2010 compared to the
comparable prior year periods is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our digital initiatives, and increased spending on technology infrastructure, including AWS. We expect these trends to
continue over time as we invest in these areas by increasing payroll and related expenses and adding technology infrastructure. For 2012, 2011, and 2010, we capitalized $454 million (including $74 million of stock-based compensation), $307 million (including $51
million of stock-based compensation), and $213 million (including 28 Table of Contents $38 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $327 million, $236 million, and
$184 million for 2012, 2011, and 2010. A majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure, other technology, and operating costs incurred to support AWS are included
in technology and content. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in 2012, 2011, and 2010 compared to the comparable prior year periods
is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $833 million, $557 million, and $424 million during 2012, 2011, and 2010. The increase in
2012, 2011, and 2010 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees and to a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $159 million, $154 million, and $106 million during 2012, 2011, and 2010. In 2012, 2011, and 2010, the amounts primarily related to amortization of intangible
assets. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 22% in 2012, decreased 39% in 2011, and increased 25% in 2010. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $40 million,
$61 million, and $51 million during 2012, 2011, and 2010. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average
balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested. The primary component of our interest expense is related to our long-term debt and capital and financing lease arrangements. Interest expense was $92 million, $65 million, and $39 million in 2012, 2011,
and 2010. Our long-term debt was $3.1 billion and $255 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011. Our other long-term
liabilities were $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011. See 

  Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Note 7—Other Long-Term Liabilities”
for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $(80) million, $76 million, and $79 million during 2012, 2011, and 2010. The primary component of other
income (expense), net, is related to foreign-currency gains (losses) on intercompany balances. 29 Table of Contents Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income
and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative
practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. We recorded a provision for
income taxes of $428 million, $291 million, and $352 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010. Our effective tax rate in 2012, 2011, and 2010 is significantly affected by two factors: the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions and the
adverse effect of losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Losses
incurred in foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit, primarily generated by subsidiaries located outside of Europe, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our
effective tax rate. We have recorded a valuation allowance against the related deferred tax assets. In 2012, the adverse
impact of such foreign jurisdiction losses was partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Additionally, our effective tax rate in 2012 was more volatile as compared to prior years due to the lower level of
pre-tax income generated during the year, relative to our tax expense. Our effective tax rate in 2012 was also adversely impacted by acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit developments, nondeductible expenses, and changes in
tax law such as the expiration of the U.S. federal research and development credit at the end of 2011. These items collectively caused our annual effective tax rate to be higher than both the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective tax
rates in 2011 and 2010. These items may also cause our effective tax rate in 2013 to be higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. In 2011 and 2010, the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions offset the adverse impact of foreign jurisdiction losses and, as a result, the effective tax rate in both years was lower
than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that
are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2012, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $89 million. We also have approximately $136 million of federal tax credits potentially available to
offset future tax liabilities. In January 2013, legislation was enacted to extend the federal research and development credit
and other favorable tax benefits through December 31, 2013. As a result, we expect that our income tax provision for the first quarter of 2013 will include a discrete tax benefit for the research and development credit and other favorable tax
benefits that were extended retroactively to January 1, 2012. 30 Table of Contents Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(155) million, $(12) million, and $7 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010. Details of the
activity are provided below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Equity in earnings (loss) of LivingSocial: Impairment charges recorded by LivingSocial $ (170 ) $ — $ — Gain on existing equity interests, LivingSocial acquisitions 75 — — Operating and other losses (96 ) (178 ) (2 ) Total equity in earnings (loss) of LivingSocial (191 ) (178 ) (2 ) Other equity-method investment activity: Amazon dilution gains on LivingSocial investment 37 114 — Recovery on sale of equity position — 49 — Gain on existing equity interests, Amazon acquisitions — 6 18 Other, net (1 ) (3 ) (9 ) Total other equity-method investment activity 36 166 9 Equity-method investment activity, net of tax $ (155 ) $ (12 ) $ 7 Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in
millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2012 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported At Prior Year Rates (1) Exchange Rate Effect (2) As Reported Net sales $ 61,947 $ (854 ) $ 61,093 $ 46,985 $ 1,092 $ 48,077 $ 34,290 $ (86 ) $ 34,204 Operating expenses 61,257 (840 ) 60,417 46,176 1,039 47,215 32,856 (58 ) 32,798 Income from operations 690 (14 ) 676 809 53 862 1,434 (28 ) 1,406 (1) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period for
operating results. (2) Represents the increase or decrease in reported amounts resulting from changes in exchange rates from those in effect in the comparable prior year period for operating
results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for
use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of “Free cash flow,” operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the
definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in
accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash
flow, which we reconcile to “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website 31 Table of Contents development.” We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will
present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of property and equipment are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of
payments representing principal reductions of debt, obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as
a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the
most comparable GAAP measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities” for 2012, 2011, and 2010 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,180 $ 3,903 $ 3,495 Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development (3,785 ) (1,811 ) (979 ) Free cash flow $ 395 $ 2,092 $ 2,516 Net cash used in investing activities $ (3,595 ) $ (1,930 ) $ (3,360 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 2,259 $ (482 ) $ 181 Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of
stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such
awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our
footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since
it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the “Fulfillment,”
“Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates
remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance We provided guidance on January 29, 2013 in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking
statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of January 29, 2013, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of
our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in  

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our
cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available for sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to
intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities
that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our
current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates at December 31, 2012 (in millions, except percentages): 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value at December 31, 2012 Money market funds $ 5,561 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 5,561 $ 5,561 Weighted average interest rate 0.12 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.12 % Corporate debt securities 223 243 204 27 — — 697 725 Weighted average interest rate 0.45 % 0.62 % 0.84 % 1.25 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.65 % U.S. Government and Agency Securities 771 561 433 20 5 — 1,790 1,810 Weighted average interest rate 0.30 % 0.43 % 0.65 % 1.12 % 1.00 % 0.00 % 0.43 % Asset backed securities 26 16 7 — — — 49 49 Weighted average interest rate 0.48 % 0.69 % 0.67 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.58 % Foreign government and agency securities 141 228 340 30 — — 739 772 Weighted average interest rate 0.18 % 0.10 % 0.12 % 0.06 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.12 % Other securities 8 9 10 5 — — 32 33 Weighted average interest rate 0.88 % 0.68 % 0.80 % 1.08 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.83 % $ 6,730 $ 1,057 $ 994 $ 82 $ 5 $ — $ 8,868 Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ 8,950 33 Table of Contents At December 31, 2012, we had $3.7 billion of debt, including the current portion,
primarily consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in three tranches: $750 million of 0.65% notes due in 2015; $1.0 billion of 1.20% notes due in 2017; and $1.3 billion of 2.50% notes due in 2022. The fair value of our debt will fluctuate with
movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices and Level 2 inputs, the fair value of our debt was $3.7 billion at
December 31, 2012. Foreign Exchange Risk During 2012, net sales from our International segment accounted for 43% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our international websites, as well as those relating to
www.amazon.ca (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Yuan. The functional currency of our
subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to
foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany
balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during 2012, International segment revenues decreased $853 million in comparison with the prior year. We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign
funds”). Based on the balance of foreign funds at December 31, 2012 of $5.1 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $255 million, $515 million, and $1.0 billion. All
investments are classified as “available for sale.” Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity. We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany
balances at December 31, 2012, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $10 million, $20 million, and $40 million, recorded to “Other income (expense), net.” See   

Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Results of Operations—Effect of Exchange Rates,” for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of December 31, 2012, our recorded basis in equity
investments was $140 million. These investments primarily relate to equity and cost method investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of such
assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic
climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. 34 Table of Contents   

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 36 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 37 Consolidated Statements of Operations 38 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 39 Consolidated Balance Sheets 40 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 41 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 35 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at 

